The winning entries will be on display at Eclectica Contemporary at 69 Burg Street.  Admission is free. Jikelo’s entry, produced when he was on the Cape Times staff was selected from 5 000 entries from 76 countries. An evocative image from a Grabouw housing protest, the Cape Times used it as a masthead picture. Jikelo, since transferred to the Cape Times’s sister organisation, the African News Agency (ANA),  has garnered seven awards in three years. He said wining the Top News category was confirmation that excellence was the product of hard work and passion. “It has come at the right time of my career and life. I never thought that I would win an international competition. I was just doing my work, like I would on any other day, like the rest of the photographers were doing theirs. ‘‘I’m just glad that my work is recognised internationally and the fact that our African stories are told by Africans. I will always push myself to achieve more,” he said. Participants from Africa have been recognised this year: Jikelo, from South Africa, and Kevin Midigo from Kenya, who won second prize in the Top News category for his “Anti-IEBC Protests” (the Kenyan Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission). Both of their pictures document the countries’ political situation. This week’s exhibition features over 50 photos, including “Migrants in Belgrade”, described as a “piercing story about people with a lost future” by Spanish journalist Alejandro Martinez Velez; the “What?” photo series by Italian photographer, Danilo Garcia Di Meo, about “the courage and the will to live of a young Italian woman called Ambra”; the black-and-white chronicle “Playing in the Dark” by Pavel Volkov, about Paralympian football player, Sergei Mangos; and “Silent Howl”, the story of MD Shahnewaz Khan from Bangladesh and children who eke out a living to support their families. Ahead of the exhibition’s arrival in South Africa, jury member and South African photojournalist Ian Landsberg said that one of the aims of the exhibition is to encourage and motivate South African photojournalists to turn their gaze to the untold stories of South Africa and the continent it is part of. “The exhibition of winning entries of the Andrei Stenin International Photo Contest brings together the best in photojournalism by young visual storytellers from around the world, including South Africa. “As a photojournalist from Africa, in particular South Africa, who is closely involved with newspaper photography as a photo editor, I am convinced that the contest will not only encourage young photojournalists to tell the stories of Africa, its people and their hopes and aspirations, but also providing global exposure and international awareness to it,” Landsberg said.