Suspended Cape Peninsula University of Technology (CPUT) security head William Baloyi has alleged he was targeted after he raised concerns about a security company he says was paid more than R20 million in a month. Baloyi’s allegations are contained in an affidavit before the Labour Court, where he has filed an application to set aside his suspension and declare it unfair labour practice. His urgent application to have the suspension set aside was dismissed with costs this week. Baloyi’s affidavit comes less than a week after CPUT vice-chancellor Chris Nhlapo told journalists that the university had spent R30m in just three months on private security. In his affidavit, he claims the university had launched an independent investigation, carried out by PricewaterhouseCoopers, into procurement practices. These included the selection of security companies that assisted CPUT during last year’s protests. One such company, he said, which was recently selected to protect all campuses, had been removed from all campuses due to alleged procurement misconduct, inflating prices and human rights violations on  campuses. In a letter dated October 6 from Nhlapo’s office, CPUT informs Baloyi that it has launched an investigation into several allegations against  him. Baloyi says: “In one of the executive management meetings before my suspension, I was asked if I have any problem with the selection and appointment of Vetus Schola as service provider. "(I) had my reservations with the selection of Vetus Schola since I was interviewed recently by a PricewaterhouseCoopers investigator. “This is the very same company that claimed more than R20m from the institution for supplying security personnel for only a month. ‘‘Surely this cannot be a coincidence? It is directly linked to my suspension as a result of clearly concocted charges.” In the letter, CPUT says Baloyi is guilty of several serious offences between July 17 and October 6, including but not limited to insubordination and gross dereliction of duty. CPUT spokesperson Lauren Kensley said: “The application before the Labour Court relates to an ongoing investigation. ‘‘CPUT has no comment to make regarding the content of the affidavit.” Vetus Schola did not respond before deadline.  siyavuya.mzantsi@inl.co.za 