The head of the youth wing of Zimbabwe's ruling party on Wednesday publicly apologised on state television to the military, which has seized power, saying it aims to isolate "criminals" in President Robert Mugabe’s entourage. Kudzai Chipanga, whose powerful Zanu-PF youth wing has been a strong supporter of Mugabe and his wife Grace, said he had voluntarily given his statement apologising for denigrating Defence Forces chief General Constantino Chiwenga. It was an abrupt about-face for Chipanga, who on Tuesday accused the army chief of subverting the constitution. "Defending the revolution and our leader and president is an ideal we live for and if need be it is a principle we are prepared to die for,” Chipanga had said at the party’s headquarters in Harare. Zimbabwe's military seized power
said it was holding Mugabe and
his family safe while targeting "criminals" in the entourage of
the man who has ruled the nation since independence 37 years
ago. Armoured vehicles
blocked roads to the main government offices, parliament and the
courts in central Harare, while taxis ferried commuters to work
nearby. The atmosphere in the capital remained calm. United Nations secretary-general Antonio Guterres, the
African Union and Western countries called for calm. By Wednesday afternoon it was business as usual in Harare's
suburbs, while there was less traffic than normal in the city
centre. Residents spoke in awe of events that had previously
seemed unthinkable. "I don't support the army but I am happy to see Mugabe gone,
maybe this country can start to develop again," said Rumbi
Katepfu, preparing to shut her mobile phone shop early in
downtown Harare. "I did not think this would ever happen... We
used to think Mugabe and Grace were invincible." As evening fell there were fewer people on the streets than
usual. In one park, a lone couple shared a chocolate bar,
seemingly unconcerned by the presence of troops. "What's there
to fear? This is a free country," said Nathan Mpariwa, stroking
the hand of his partner. Tanks blocked roads after dark and soldiers with automatic
weapons kept up their patrols, but made no effort to stop people
streaming home from work. Whatever the final outcome, the events could signal a
once-in-a-generation change for the southern African nation,
once a regional bread-basket, reduced to destitution by an
economic crisis Mugabe's opponents have long blamed on him. Even many of Mugabe's most loyal supporters had come to
oppose the rise of his wife, who courted the powerful youth wing
of the ruling party but alienated the military, led by Mugabe's
former guerrilla comrades from the 1970s independence struggle.