Zimbabwean President Emmerson Mnangagwa on Monday named Patrick Chinamasa acting finance minister until a new cabinet has been appointed, the chief secretary to the president and cabinet said on Monday. Chinamasa was a former finance minister under Robert Mugabe's government but was moved to a newly created ministry of cyber security during a reshuffle last month. Mnangagwa also appointed a two-member interim cabinet “to allow for uninterrupted services in critical government ministries”. Chinamasa as acting minister of finance and economic development and Simbarashe Mumbengegwi as acting minister of foreign affairs. “In terms of section 108 (1c) of the Constitution of Zimbabwe Amendment (Number 20) Act 2013, His Excellency the President of Zimbabwe, Cde Emmerson Dambudzo Mnangagwa, has dissolved cabinet, and is in the process of putting together a new team of cabinet ministers," said a statement released on Monday night by chief secretary to the president and cabinet, Misheck Sibanda. “To allow for uninterrupted services in critical ministries of government, the following have been appointed ministers in acting capacity until the announcement of a new cabinet: Honourable Patrick Chinamasa as acting minister of finance and economic development, and Honourable Simbarashe Mumbengegwi as acting minister of foreign affairs.” Former Zimbabwean finance minister Ignatious Chombo was denied bail on Monday after being detained regarding allegations of corruption during a military coup earlier this month. Chombo, a key ally of Mugabe, was seen as a "man of means" and capable of fleeing the country, Magistrate Elisha Singano said. "The state has demonstrated that it has a strong case against the accused," the magistrate said in denying Chombo bail. The defendant's lawyer, Lovemore Madhuku, said he would appeal at the high court. Chombo, who is linked to a faction that was pushing for Grace Mugabe to replace her husband as Zimbabwe's president, was arrested after the military takeover on November 15, which forced the leader of 37 years to resign. Other Mugabe backers are believed to have fled the country. The State is alleging that Chombo fraudulently forged documents to acquire land in an affluent Harare suburb in 1997. Chombo is also accused of defrauding the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe of US$39 million intended as agricultural support funds.