Johannesburg - Civil rights group Afriforum on Thursday announced it had instituted legal action to prosecute the National Prosecuting Authority's (NPA) Advocate Nomgcobo Jiba. The organisation revealed this at a press briefing in Centurion following a previous announcement about the planned private prosecution of a very prominent person in President Jacob Zuma’s inner circle. Afriforum, at the briefing, revealed that the head of its private prosecutions Advocate Gerrie Nel would go after Jiba on charges of fraud and perjury. "Nel and AfriForum act in the case against Jiba on behalf of Maj. Gen. Johan Booysen, the former Head of the Hawks in KwaZulu-Natal. "AfriForum argues that Jiba committed fraud and perjury during the process of charging Booysen with racketeering.." ALSO READ: #GerrieNel to prosecute Duduzane Zuma Nel explained that his office decided to assist Booysen in his application for a nolle prosequi certificate that will allow AfriForum to privately prosecute Jiba on behalf of Booysen. Should the NPA issue a nolle prosequi certificate, AfriForum is obliged in terms of legislation to start the private prosecuting process within 90 days. “The prosecution will then proceed just like any other criminal case before a judge in a court, except that as prosecutor I will not be in the service of the NPA,” he said. Adding to this was Chief executive officer of AfriForum Kallie Kriel, who said it was in the interest of the principle of equality before the law that Jiba should be prosecuted. The civil rights group went on to claim that Booysens was targeted "unlawfully" by Jiba after he started probing the business operations of Thoshan Panday, a KZN businessman with alleged close ties to the Zuma family. Jiba is the second prominent person Afriforum has gone after, with Nel announcing in October that the civil rights group had instituted legal action to prosecute President Jacob Zuma's son, Duduzane. "We have assisted the Dube family to submit an application for a nolle prosequi certificate earlier on Tuesday morning, to prosecute Mr Duduzane Zuma on a charge of culpable homicide," Nel told journalists in Pretoria. This is a developing story. IOL