Jane Newcombe returned to the dock yesterday at the Western Cape High Court where Rohde is on trial for the alleged murder of his wife. Yesterday, defence lawyer Pete Mihalik asked Newcombe that if someone said “I have been sad for more than 300 days”, what action she would take as a clinical psychologist. Mihalik was referring to a text message Susan had sent to Rohde in the aftermath of establishing the details around her husband's affair. “I don’t really care anyway because I know for the whole 302 days you were with her you wanted to leave me and you hated me,” Rohde’s lawyers allege Susan said to him in a WhatsApp on May 9, just weeks before she died. “I could feel it and that’s why I was always so sad. 302 days I was sad. Now for 72 days I’ve felt like dying.” Responding, Newcombe said depending on the context she would be concerned, but with the caveat that her clinical judgments could only be made based on information brought to her. “I had no impression that Susan was spinning the yarn (during our sessions). I would look at her demeanour and she was well-groomed, conscious of her appearance and she had an expressive demeanour about her. "There was no clear image that she was depressive,” Newcombe said. Further, the sentiments expressed in the WhatsApp messages came as a surprise to the therapist, who said this week Susan was anxious and tearful at times, but she was easily soothed and able to take control and think her way through situations. “Clinically, Susan Rohde presented as an intelligent, attractive woman, whose responses to situations were both appropriate and proportional. “She was engaged well in the therapeutic relationship and was forthcoming with information and considered in her responses.” The State alleges Susan was killed by manual strangulation and possibly including violence inflicted by means unknown. In his plea explanation, Rohde, who is a father to three daughters, admitted to an extramarital affair with a colleague. Currently out on R1.1million bail, Rohde, a senior employee of Lew Geffen Sotheby’s International Realty, pleaded not guilty to killing his wife during a company conference on July 24 last year and defeating the ends of justice by staging a suicide.  chevon.booysen@inl.co.za 