Yesterday dam storage levels were at 36.8%, with usable water at 26.8% while collective water usage was 582 million litres, therefore 82million litres above the required level of 500 million litres per day. The provincial government announced that the average level for dams was 34.8%. Mayor Patricia de Lille said the city has managed to halve Cape Town’s water usage with the help of 51% of water users who have put tremendous efforts into saving water. “We will only get through this crisis together. To make this partnership work even more effectively, I appeal to all water users, especially the 49% who are not saving water yet, to join us all as we escalate efforts to beat this drought. "Your help is vital and we need you to come on board with Team Cape Town,” she said. De Lille said more needed to be done  to bring usage down while at the same time pulling out all the stops to ensure that they implemented various projects for additional water supply to help see us through to winter next year. “This summer with the heat and wind, we can expect a steady decline going forward, so continued savings are a must. “We have looked at ways to fund a first phase of water supply projects by relooking at our spend across the City to see which non-water-related projects we can temporarily postpone while protecting funds for basic and emergency services,” added De Lille. She said they would partly fund the first seven additional water projects with this saving and re-prioritised money which comprised some R2billion. The first phase projects earmarked for these funds are the desalination plants at Monwabisi, Strandfontein, the V&A Waterfront, and Cape Town Harbour; the Atlantis and Cape Flats Aquifer projects; and the Zandvliet water recycling project which make up the first seven emergency water projects of this phase. Meanwhile, the provincial government said Beaufort West has not reached a day zero situation. Local Government, Environmental Affairs and Development Planning MEC Anton Bredell’s spokesperson James Brent-Steyn said: “The town has simply run out of surface water. "It must be noted that the town relies mainly on groundwater and a reclamation plant for its water. This has been the case for some time. "In addition, the Beaufort West area is one of five areas currently worst affected by the drought. The other four are Kannaland, City of Cape Town, Bitou and Knysna.”