Organised in partnership with the Cape Times, the race is scheduled to take place on December 16. This year, more than 1500 runners will be taking part. The race starts and ends at the NY49 Stadium in Gugulethu and includes a 10km race and a 4.2km fun run. Ngesi said: “I was raised in Gugulethu. My family is from there. And the most amazing thing is that the community comes out and supports the runners. “The children get sweets from all the runners. “It (RCS Gugulethu Race) shows that you can be in a township and be safe. You can bring business and create work in the townships and it actually is a community like most 
suburbs. “So people do not have to leave Gugulethu. They can actually stay and make money.” As the official MC of the event, he shared his views: “I think it is always good to show the young that you can actually live in Gugulethu and still travel the world and make your dreams a reality while coming from Gugulethu. “A lot of times I will get a number of fathers who point at me and say to their children, ‘you see that kid, he made it from Gugulethu’.” In commemoration of Reconciliation Day, Ngesi said, “without reconciliation I do not think South Africa would be the country that it is today.  It has taught us a lot. “We can learn a lot from former president Nelson Rolihlahla Mandela. “I think at the moment South Africa has a significant state of affairs, but I think December 16 is a very important day to look back and see how far we have come. “There are many South Africans who have reconciled with bigger differences. “I think any Capetonian (should come out and support the runners). I think my friend (comedian) Marc Lottering must be there. “All my famous friends - Stuart Taylor who is a comedian, (musician) Jack Parow is a good friend of mine, (Olympic champion) Caster (Semenya) is in town, (rugby player) Siya Kolisi when he gets back in town - will also be there. “All of them are good friends of mine and I would love 
to get them to the race, especially Siya (Kolisi), and I will drag him to the race,” Ngesi said. Spot prizes, food stalls and loads of fun activities for the young ones make this the perfect family outing day. To enter, visit www.entrytime.co.za.  lonwabo.marele@inl.co.za 