Cape Town - Corinne Bailey Rae has been named among the headline international acts of the 19th Cape Town International Jazz Festival taking place on March 23 and 24, 2018, at the Cape Town International Convention Centre. Seu Jorge, whose Portugeuse covers of David Bowie's songs got global recognition in the movie The Life Aquatic with Steve Zisou, will also be among the top international acts. Some of South Africa's best performance talent will also be on show.   Local fusion sensation Mi Casa are also on the line-up for the 2018 festival, along with veteran Cape Town performer Alistair Izobell. Cape Town's Claire Phillips and Jarrad Ricketts, crowned the espYoungLegend 2018 winner, will up the game with a dynamic showcase. Sekunjalo Edujazz Band will also be on hand to deliver their impressive interpretation of evergreen standards and local classics. Helmed by new director Kelly Bell, the ensemble’s varied playlist includes numerous memorable highlights. Independent Media’s group executive for marketing and communication, Lutfia Vayej, said the sustainable training and development programmes, job creation opportunities and the promotion of local talent and artists on the African continent, are in line with Independent Media’s empowerment and development objectives and the key reason for the company’s sponsorship of the festival once again. “The many side events leading up to the festival, like the art, journalism, photography and music workshops, the focus on nurturing local talent and the creation of hundreds of jobs before and during the festival, have all added value to Independent Media’s investment in the festival. “Of course, this is also a great opportunity for us to indirectly and directly engage with our various audiences, advertisers and key stakeholders,” said Vayej. Billy Domingo, COO of espAfrika and Festival Director of CTIJF said: “This year we set out to create a strong programme in which every artist is a star. Rooted and inspired in jazz legacy with known favourites, but also with the excitement of discovering new material and artists that will blow fans away with their musical creativity. “Together with our customary panel of music experts, I believe we have melded a cracking line-up that will appeal to exacting Festinos who join us every year to celebrate, but also to a newer and younger audience who are uncovering the delights of their own musical journeys through the CTIJF.” Cape Town mayor Patricia De Lille said: “For nearly two decades, the City of Cape Town has been a proud host of the Cape Town International Jazz Festival which brings the world’s very best in jazz and other popular music genres to our shores. The City is a proud supporter of this event as it has added immense value to our efforts to become the events capital of Africa. Indeed, we hold the title proudly but we are grateful for the efforts of organisers of the spectacular jazz festival, which never fails to impress with a stellar and dynamic line up each year. “The Cape Town International Jazz Festival brings people from all over the city and the country together in their love for music and in doing so, this event indeed strengthens our work of building an inclusive city. My thanks go to the organisers for continuing to put your best forward to make sure that the jazz festival remains one of our city’s key annual events. We look forward to celebrating music and people at what is sure to be an amazing 2018 instalment.” The official sponsors of the 19th annual Cape Town International Jazz Festival are The Department of Arts and Culture, Independent Media and host city, the City of Cape Town. Other sponsors include South African Tourism, Amstel, Johnny Walker and Peninsula Beverages. Tickets are available at Computicket outlets. You can buy weekend passes here and day passes here.  argusnews@inl.co.za  Cape Argus