Cape Town - The Independent Electoral Commission (IEC) says it will need R45 million to implement the draft Public Funding of Represented Political Parties Amendment Bill. Appearing before Parliament’s ad hoc committee on party funding, the electoral body also warned that it would not accept the new mandate if it received no additional funding. The draft bill provides for regulation of public funding for parties represented in legislatures and donations from private donors. It provides for parties to disclose their source of funding to the IEC and submit audited statements at specified intervals. The bill also provides for banning of foreign funding, but it allows funding for skills and development training. IEC chairman Glen Mashinini said they had made an educated guess on the cost implication of the new legislation. "We cannot as the commission take any new additional mandate without the commensurate funding," Mashinini said Chief electoral officer Simon Mamabolo said the IEC plans to establish a business unit that would be assigned its own accounting officer to focus on party funding matters. This was to ensure the new mandate did not impact on their capacity in electoral operations. Mamabolo also said they did not know the extent of the work but estimated overall cost for the first year at R45m with R11m to be spent on employees costs and a further R33m on operational costs. He said resources were already over-stretched. Parliamentarians asked questions about the amount, which equals a quarter of the current public funding for parties. Mashinini said their presentation was to provide their considered view, but they would abide by what lawmakers determined. "What we bring to your attention is we need to envisage possible loopholes that may defeat the end we wish to achieve," he said. The IFP's Narend Singh said there was a need for additional funding to enable the IEC perform its functions. "We don't want to give unnecessary burden without funding," he said. Mamabolo also told the committee that the draft bill made disclosures for funding applicable only to political parties with no requirement provided for those making donations. He said the bill needed dual disclosure. The DA's James Selfe said "dual disclosure" could be a burden in administrative work on ordinary donors while ANC's Donald Gumede said it should be for agreed thresholds. Committee chairman Vincent Smith said: "Dual disclosure is a principle we must embrace." Mamabolo also pointed out the bill lacked criminal sanctions for transgressors. "A regulatory framework bearing no criminal sanctions is weak and people will transgress it," he said. The committee meets next week to fine tune the draft bill before its presentation to the National Assembly at end of the month. The Independent on Saturday 