This was detailed in a responding affidavit to claims made by Kesson that De Lille and City manager Achmat Ebrahim targeted Kesson as a whistle-blower. Kesson alleged that the two failed to take action against a senior City official implicated in allegations of financial misconduct. Ebrahim, Kesson (the executive director in De Lille’s office) and transport and urban development authority commissioner Melissa Whitehead were given until this week to provide council with reasons why they should not be placed on precautionary suspension pending an investigation. This followed a closed council meeting last Tuesday to discuss allegations of nepotism and tender manipulation relating to the development of the Foreshore and the acquisition of electric buses for MyCiTi. In an affidavit, Kesson charged that Ebrahim failed to ensure the proper implementation of the City’s contract with AEM and ICT Works, which were contracted to implement station management and related systems for the MyCiTi BRT. He also claimed that De Lille threatened him with suspension for improperly investigating Ebrahim’s conduct. De Lille has denied the allegations and says Ebrahim had pointed out extensive examples of remedial measures taken in relation to matters raised by Kesson. “The City has already taken extensive measures to deal with criminal conduct by employees of external MyCiTi bus service providers and other irregularities relating to transport," said De Lille. "These concerns were reported by Whitehead herself and have been properly investigated. "Initial investigations were conducted and in some cases finally concluded by the City’s Forensic, Ethics and Integrity Department.” On the basis of one of these investigations, the City commissioned independent investigations by independent entities - PricewaterhouseCoopers and a legal assessment by Cliffe Dekker Hofmeyr (CDH), she added. They have produced draft reports which are not yet final. De Lille said Ebrahim is responsible for receiving and actioning these reports. She has also denied protecting Whitehead and said there are two versions of the forensic report on the IRT fare system, and the issued version does not contain any recommendation relating to Whitehead. She also denied expressing any preference or opposition to bidders’ proposals for the Foreshore Freeway Precinct project, as she was not involved in the tender process, and vehemently denied threatening Kesson. “I have not approved any threat by anyone against anyone. I have myself threatened no one. “It is unfortunately not correct that Mr Kesson acts in good faith and without animosity towards the people whom he ‘vilifies’ in his affidavit. "I believe that he has leaked substantially the same information and selective documentation to certain politicians. This is suggestive of a political campaign,” De Lille said. Kesson did not respond to requests for comment by deadline.