Lottering introduced Aunty Merle to audiences 19 years ago (a year after he began his stand-up career). Now we will get a behind-the-scenes look at her life. In Aunty Merle, The Musical she introduces us to her family and friends. A family wedding looms, the nuptials of her daughter, Abigail (played by Tarryn Lamb) to Alan (Stephen Jubber). Aunty Merle’s take on the match: “He’s a good-looking white chap!” Directed by Lara Foot, the show features music (songs written by Lottering and Lamb); a band (musical director is Alistair Izobell) and a cast of 14. Performing with Lottering and Lamb are Loukmaan Adams, Stephen Jubber, Kate Normington, Adrian Galley, Carmen Maarman, Daniel Richards, Royston Stoffels, Roberto Kyle, Sizwesandile Mnisi, Tankiso Mamabolo, Zandile Madliwa and Anray Amansure. “Aunty Merle was created when I started out. She definitely ranks as one of my more popular characters,” said Lottering. “She’s been entertaining Lottering fans for years, telling audiences about her neighbours and her family, pretty much leaving it up to the audience to imagine what these characters look like. “So now they finally get to meet these characters in the flesh: Merle’s husband Dennis, Merle’s son and daughter, Merle’s helper, Merle’s neighbour Soraya. "I absolutely love music. I absolutely love comedy. I absolutely love Aunty Merle. So it’s no surprise that my first play about Aunty Merle arrives in the form of a musical comedy.” Do any of Lottering’s other characters from his stand-up career appear in the musical? “No, none of the other characters appear in the show. This is Aunty Merle’s stint: Aunty Merle’s world.” This has to be one most demographically diverse musical theatre productions in South Africa - a slice of contemporary Cape Town in a musical. “The story is fictional, but entirely possible, if you know what I mean. I draw on real people for my writing, whether I intend to do so or not. I needed to find a story that would create an opportunity for comedy, and at the same time be totally believable. “Even in my solo stand-up shows, storytelling is the essential ingredient. I thoroughly enjoy telling a story. I thoroughly enjoy creating a story. "So when I was faced with the challenge of creating a long story for big show, it was by no means a challenge that gave me a migraine. There was a calm flow to the process. Storytelling is my thing.” Kate Normington plays the mom of the groom to be - opposite Stephen Jubber. Their surname is White. Abigail will become a White. Then there is Aunty Merle’s helper and her activist daughter. “It’s my hope that audiences will recognise these characters as real South Africans. I have always made a point of being truthful in my
comedy. “And this show is no different. For example, Aunty Merle lives in Athlone and her helper, Lydia, is from Khayelitsha: very South African situation. We have a moment in the show where we place this under a magnifying glass.” I loved Lottering’s last festive season show at the Baxter and his leitmotif - “we must cope” - we have to get through - despite the kak. It sounds like there is oodles of upbeat positivism to this musical. “I’d like to think that people drive home from my shows, feeling good. And smiling - even if the feeling lasts for just a short little while. “Life is tricky, but somehow many of us get through - and even manage to crack a smile or two, while doing this thing called ‘life’. That’s my tribe.” *  Aunty Merle, The Musical is on November 30 to January 13 - Monday to Friday at 8pm and two shows on Saturdays at 4pm and 8pm. Tickets are R100 to R160. Matinees (4pm) R135. Tickets for the performance on New Year’s Eve (Sunday, December 31) are R260. Book at Computicket: www.computicket.com or 0861 915 8000.