The meeting comes after almost 800 people protested in Touws River on Monday, blocking the N1 highway and marched to the police demanding to speak to the officer investigating the case who they claimed at the time was “blocking” payments from Cupido to them. Cupido claimed he could not disburse money to the victims of his allegedly fraudulent “investment” scheme, saying his multiple bank accounts had been frozen by the Hawks since his offices were raided in September last year. Hawks spokesperson Lloyd Ramovha said they had to again tell the disgruntled “investors” that Cupido was being less than truthful. They were on Wednesday given a written assurance that Cupido would not be arrested if he made payments. “We will wait and see what happens next and if he indeed pays out, but the investigation is ongoing,” he said. Investor Rodney Visagie remained sceptical that the Hawks assurance could be trusted, saying he hoped there wouldn’t be “interference from the Hawks behind the scenes” with regards to Cupido’s First National Bank account, or the Financial Services Board, which is investigating him for not being a registered financial services provider. He accused the police of using stun grenades, tear gas and rubber bullets against the protesters, resulting in two serious injuries including an 80-year-old having an asthma attack. Another investor, Franswa Pietersen, said assurances were given from the Hawks that payments by Cupido’s “investment company”, 4th Power Investments, could not and would not be blocked. “The (Hawks) investigating officer and another senior official told us that he (Cupido) can do payouts. “We will wait and see what he does now. People may still believe in him because he is a pastor. “That is right - but he has lied before and owes me R30 000 for space he has rented as well,” said Pietersen. He complained that Cupido was given numerous opportunities and various legal options to pay out the investors, but he had rejected them. Pietersen is now prepared to take legal action if he isn’t paid what he claims are his dues before the end of the month. Cape Times