Cape Town - The National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) has welcomed the sentencing – to six life terms and 30 years – of the ringleader of a vigilante killing that left six young Kraaifontein men dead almost three years ago. Western Cape High Court Deputy Judge President Patricia Goliath sentenced Bangikhaya Koni to five years for each of the six kidnappings, and to life imprisonment for each of the six murders. Judge Goliath ordered that the sentences run concurrently. The families of the deceased men welcomed the sentencing. Noncedo Gcorha, a family member, said she had not fully healed from the death of her brother, Emmanuel Barnes. Read: 10 in court over stoning murders “It’s very hard without my brother. It’s even more difficult that I will never see him again,” said Gcorha. Almost three years ago, Koni, along with 16 others, rounded up six young men at a house in Kraaifontein, then took them to Joostenberg Vlakte, where they were stabbed and crushed with rocks and bricks. The trouble started when the six men – Zola Gayiya, Barnes, Sandisile Ngxabela, Sakhele Ngxabela, Lulama Dunga and Mhlanganisi Mlanjeni – allegedly robbed and killed Tsutsutsu Ntsundu, a security guard. In his plea agreement, Koni said Ntsundu’s brother offered R3 000 for information on the identity of his killers. After supplying this information, Koni was offered R10 000 for them to be traced and killed. The group bundled the six young men into a bakkie and drove to Joostenberg Vlakte, where they were stabbed with a sword and stoned. Afterwards, the group met at Koni's house. They kept R5 000 for bail in case they were arrested and used the remaining R5 000 for a braai. State advocate John Reyneveld said the murders were premeditated and Koni was the ringleader. “The deceased were first tortured for hours. They were defenceless at the time of their deaths since their legs were tied and their arms tied behind their backs. They were then left naked and only discovered the following morning.” Cape Times