A United Democratic Front activist, Lucas was sentenced to death on August 21, 1987 at the age of 21 in the Cape Town Supreme Court for the murder of a bus inspector, William Blaauw. He was buried in an unmarked pauper’s grave at the Mamelodi cemetery near Pretoria after he was hanged at Pretoria Central Prison on March 25, 1988. Pamela Tu, his daughter, said their family could finally find peace - something they had been denied until now. “When the government told us we would finally receive my father’s remains, we were happy and sad at the same time. "Now we will know where he is buried and we can all be at peace. I only hope that other families who have gone through this will receive the same peace,” said Tu. The family were overwhelmed by the support and well wishes they had received following news of her father’s remains returning home. Lucas’s remains were returned as part of the implementation of recommendations of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission. He is one of 83 political prisoners who were hanged at Pretoria Central Prison during the apartheid era, and whose remains have been found, exhumed and returned to their families by the NPA Missing Persons Task Team. Lucas’s funeral was attended by an array of former UDF activists, as well as his family, including his mother Tozana Ncwango, his brother Ernest Lucas, and his sisters Nonbulelo Ncwango and Kholiwe Ncwango. Also at the service was Sports Minister Thulas Nxesi and Lucas’s advocate at his trial, Michael Donen, who addressed those at the service. Sipho Kroma was a close friend of Lucas and was arrested and detained with him. They suffered the same torture at the hands of security police during their detention, he told the Cape Times. “We felt saddened and hurt by his sacrifice for us. What 
we did back then was not important. Many like Michael suffered worse (fates), but now he is home and we know where he will rest in peace,” said Kroma. The day was bittersweet for his family, he said, and all those who had mourned for Lucas were now given the opportunity denied them all those many years ago. He said they were not just laying Lucas’s soul to rest, but celebrating his life as well as the lives of the many men and women who also sacrificed their lives during the Struggle. Donen defended Lucas at his trial, and recounted how the Cape Town Supreme Court judge was convinced the activist was lying when he pleaded guilty to the charges. “Michael pleaded guilty in order to save his comrades arrested with him, so strong was his religious and moral and perhaps his political conviction to save their lives. "Back in those days the bodies became the property of the state; they received a pauper’s burial while surrounded by the most beautiful gardens outside the prison,” Donen said. “The miracle and celebration of the exhumation project of the Department of Justice and Correctional Services was that of bringing the bodies back to their families and allowing them a dignified burial. "In Michael’s case, this has meant him being wrapped up in the colours of the liberation movement he loved and gave his life for.” Between 1960 and 1990, it was reported that at least 130 people were hanged for politically related offences. The remains of 47 members of mainly the ANC, PAC and UDF anti-apartheid activists  have been exhumed, while 83 of them remain buried in unmarked graves.  dominic.adriaanse@inl.co.za 