During the meeting at the Tuynhuys, a progress report was also received on the Presidential War on Leaks Programme, which Zuma spearheaded and is aimed at fighting water leakages while providing youth with skills as plumbers and in various artisan trades. This comes as the average level for dams in the province stood at  34.8% on Monday, according to the province. The Presidency said the Western Cape had appealed for assistance during Zuma’s meeting with the leadership of provincial and local government. Yesterday, Premier Helen Zille’s spokesperson, Michael Mpofu, said Zille presented the Western Cape government’s interventions to date in assisting municipalities to manage their water demand and supply. “Premier Zille also highlighted the urgent need for the National Department of Water  and Sanitation to fulfil its mandate for major infrastructure development and maintenance, particularly in augmentation schemes. “Some of the projects which should have been completed include the raising of the dam walls at Clanwilliam dam, the raising of the canal walls leading to the Brandvlei dam, and expediting the Bergriver Voelvlei scheme and Kannaland dam projects,” Mpofu said. He said Zille  also raised several other matters relating to water-use licences and borehole drilling in various municipalities. Mayor Patricia de Lille said: “Before the matter was referred to the task team, the City was already engaging with national government. "I have met with the Minister of Water and Sanitation on two occasions as well as with the economic cluster and Minister Patel. “The kind of assistance we are receiving from national is with regard to water licences, clearing of catchment areas as well as with our application to the Green Climate Fund for funding  our water augmentation projects. “We will continue to work with national government and will tap into every possible partnership to ensure that as the City we do everything we can to beat this drought with the help of Capetonians who must continue saving water. "If we all do our best in this partnership, we will make it through this drought.”