Cape Town - The man accused of abducting and killing 22-year-old Driftsands resident Noluvo Swelindawo was seen stamping on her head and kicking her in the face several times just days before her body was found near the N2 in Driftsands. The details of the alleged incident on December 2, 2016, emerged at the Western Cape High Court where the trial of 26-year-old Sigcine Mdani began on Monday. Mdani has pleaded not guilty to the five charges which include assault with intent to do bodily harm, housebreaking, murder and contravention of the firearms control act. Swelindawo, a lesbian, was allegedly assaulted and then abducted after a break-in at her home in Driftsands near Khayelitsha. She was later found shot dead on December 4. Read: Lesbian killed in Driftsands Partner tells of lesbian's brutal murder The State says Mdani assaulted Swelindawo with the intention of causing grievous bodily harm by kicking her and applying blunt force to her head, face and other parts of her body. The State also alleges he shot and killed Swelindawo at or near Old Fourie Road in Driftsands. State witness Gcotyelwa Mnqandi took to the stand and told the court how she rushed to Swelindawo’s rescue when she was attacked, allegedly by Mdani. The alleged incident happened on December 2 outside Mnqandi’s house while she and her friends were having a party. The 24-year-old Mnqandi said she was inside her house and the doors were open when she noticed someone being beaten outside. “I was dancing and the doors were opened. I noticed that someone was being beaten outside. I noticed that the person (being attacked) was wearing a black leather jacket and shorts. "I thought it was Noluvo because she usually wore that jacket. I ran outside and saw Sigcine. I saw him kicking Noluvo in the head. Her face was towards the ground. He also kicked her on the face,” said Mnqandi. Mnqandi stopped the alleged assault and picked Swelindawo up. Her mouth was bleeding and she was crying. She had sand in her face, Mnqandi testified. Also read: 'I know what it is to be strangled, penetrated' “I asked her why she was being beaten by the accused. She responded by saying she did not know and phrased the question to Sigcine. He (Mdani) did not respond.” Swelindawo refused to come inside the house and left. Mnqandi said she knew Mdani before the incident and usually saw him at a carwash with friends “smoking tik”. Advocate Sheriff Mohamed for Mdani said his instructions were that Swelindawo started the fight. He said his client was allegedly smacked twice by Swelindawo. Mohamed said his client would deny that Mnqandi picked up Swelindawo. “The accused will say he observed the deceased was drunk and wanted to get involved in a fight,” he said. Cape Times