Mzingisi’s friends, Athule Makonzi, 15 and Khanyisa Mtamzeli, 17, died on August 27, a few hours after eating the food the previous night. Athabile Simayile, who only ate the polony, was taken to the hospital and discharged four days later. Since the autopsy reports were made available, all three families have sought an apology from Smith for his comments that illegal substances may have been to blame rather than the food. Smith suggested narcotics could have led to the deaths. Read: 'Drugs not to blame for vetkoek deaths’, family may sue Mayco member He released a statement shortly after the boys’ deaths, in September, saying there was “suspicion of possible drug use or a potential other form of poisoning”. “The autopsies on the deceased will determine the cause of death, but at this stage the SAPS has indicated that it does not appear to be food poisoning and that it appears that the children mixed other substances into their food,” he wrote. Mzingisi’s aunt, Nomsa Tikiteni, told the Cape Times that Smith should “man up” and apologise. She said Smith should not have suggested the boys died from drugs without having proof and now that the autopsy results were available and proved they died of poisoning “Smith must tell the world like he did that it was not drugs”. Tikiteni said because Smith was a public figure the public took his word, and were thus likely to believe that her nephew and his friends had dabbled in drugs. “He must use the same platforms he used and apologise. The questions is: Where did he get that information that it was drugs? “It was premature of him to go public like that. What he said hurt us,” she said. Also read: Second 'vetkoek death' autopsy shows 'JP Smith must apologise' Makonzi’s sister Sibulele told the Cape Times: “As a family we believe Smith is disgusting and racist because if this was a white child he would not have spoken like he did. “What is worse is that he never set foot in our homes to come and listen to what exactly happened. Because they are black boys he thinks he can say anything. "People have been using drugs but they don’t kill them. What he said is disgusting,” she said. Contacted by the Cape Times, Smith again said he would not apologise. “I cannot take responsibility for the fact that information was released by a SAPS station,” he said. “We passed the information on exactly as it was received from SAPS. We have a sworn affidavit attesting to this.” He sent the Cape Times a copy of the affidavit. Police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana was adamant that the information from Smith’s statement never came from her office Further, the City of Cape Town’s environmental health department was investigating where the insecticide that appears to have killed the three Langa teenagers originated. He said it would take a month to get the toxicology report. The investigation, according to Smith, has included interviews with Athabile, the vetkoek vendor, as well as an inspection of the premises where the vetkoek was apparently purchased. He said the environmental health department had been in constant communication with the Forensic Pathology Service as well as the SAPS and the toxicology results were not available yet. Smith said the medical practitioner who performed the autopsy had to inform the City of the results within seven days after receiving them. Asked why the environmental health department did not interview the families of the deceased, Smith said: “The City has not received notification of cause of death and therefore we are not obliged to conduct any investigations.” Cape Times