The Randburg Magistrate's Court on Friday found estate agent Vicki Momberg guilty of four counts of crimen injuria for her racist outbursts at police emergency telephone operators and a black police officer. "If one calls one a K-word it will institute crimen injuria and is deeply offensive to blacks," magistrate Pravina Raghoonandan said while handing down her judgment. "She did not use control and [the remarks] were directed specifically at black people. She knew her actions were unlawful ... accused actions were rational and intentional." Raghoonandan began by reading the testimonies of the 10111 operators, who were insulted by Momberg while they were attempting to assist her. Momberg was the victim of a smash-and-grab incident in North Riding in Johannesburg. "Six State witnesses confirmed that a call came in from a woman who sounded white and needed assistance, but there was a challenge because she was screaming and using the k-word," Raghoonandan read. In February, Momberg, 48, was caught on camera calling a police officer the k-word while he was assisting her following the smash-and grab incident. Momberg was recorded on the video using the K-word 48 times. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. "According to the witness, the words used made him feel useless and made him feel black and stupid." The accused was charged with four counts of crimen injuria as her result of her actions on the day in question. Momberg pleaded not guilty to the charges, saying she was emotionally stressed and severely traumatised following the incident. The accused had claimed in her version that a "black officer came towards her like he was going to hit her ... all the white officer wanted to do was know what happened to her." "She remembers making the calls to 10111... she remembers she was angry, she doesn't remember the words she used," said the magistrate. Momberg said during the trial that she used the offending words out of frustration and that the video footage showing her making the racial slurs was tampered with. Advocate Joe Davidovitz, for Momberg, had earlier opposed an application for a live broadcasting of the sentencing because the accused and her family had received death threats since the incident became public. However, Raghoonandan ruled in favour of the media application to broadcast the judgement and take pictures of Momberg. Momberg, who is out on warning, was ordered not to leave Johannesburg or the country without the permission of the investigating officer. Sentencing has been set for 30 November and 1 December. African News Agency