The South Africa ambassador to Cuba, Thaninga Shope-Linney, has urged South African business people to persevere and not be disillusioned with the slow pace of commerce and trade in Cuba when in search of business opportunities. She said the slow place was a minor hurdle in a market that is otherwise “very much interested” in doing business with South Africa and the rest of the African 
continent. Shope-Linney was speaking during a debriefing session with a group of South African business people who were showcasing locally made products and services at the week-long Havana International Fair (Fihav). “We have a serious transport issue in terms of the blockade to ship goods to Cuba and I ask that you not grow impatient to these external factors, because in the middle of all these there exists a host of opportunities which we can mutually benefit from. “When encountering challenges, be it of an administrative or any form, never hesitate to engage the embassy for assistance. Please ensure that you notify the embassy when you venture into the country,” she said. In addition, Shope-Linney said that small businesses were quite dominant in Cuba. “I’m sure there is a lot we can learn from the Cuban model of 
promoting small businesses. That is why I am also looking at roping in our small business ministry so as to establish contact with the Cubans, because I feel there is plenty we can learn from them. “Yes, the commerce is a challenge, the practice of transactions is also cumbersome, but I urge you to not give up and to keep persisting. “I also would like to urge the Department of Trade and Industry to increase the number of companies for FIHAV 2018 to ensure that we are represented in all sectors,” urged Shope-Linney. Mosibudi Makgato, who brews Yamama Gemmer Ginger Beer and was part of the business delegation that was showcasing at Fihav, reported that the interactions she had with the Cubans had yielded some valuable advice which she was already planning on incorporating into her marketing strategy going forward. “I learnt that ginger beer is very big in Cuba, and the most valuable advice I learnt from the locals was that I must look at ways of marketing my product not only as a soft drink, but also as a health drink, because its efficacy is valued in Cuba. As a way forward, I will look at ways of repackaging it. “I even secured a lead from a representative of a company in Trinidad and Tobago which I will be following-up on when back in the country,” she said. Medupe is spokesperson at the Department of Trade and Industry