There's only one thing better than your BFF arriving on your doorstep after a bad day at the office; your BFF arriving on your door- step after a bad day at the office with a bottle of bubbly in her hand! Because your best bud and your favourite bottle are so alike: they pick you up when you’re feeling down,they’re your plus one at every event,and they always add that little touch of sparkle to special occasions. Here’s why, in our opinion, bubbly drinkers make the best friends! : GIRLS JUST WANNA HAVE FUN Bubbly BFFs love to party. And by party it means dancing like no-one is watching and singing at the top of your voice.
Unashamedly, over-the-top, one-of-a kind. A bubbly BFF knows not to take herself too seriously and can easily let her hair down. PICTURE PERFECT Bubbly BFFS are snap happy. Not only are you both self-professed selfie pouters, but you share an addiction for snapchat. Your BFF even knows exactly which bubbly snapchat filter captures your best Vogue moment as you strive to be the envy of your social media followers. After all, it’s not easy being effortlessly chic and the life of the party at the same time! IT’S ALWAYS BUBBLY O’CLOCK Bubbly BFFs drink their bubbly all. the. time.Bubbly is delicious with oysters, a tangy vinegar-shallot mignonette and Champagne-infused foam with frozen Champagne grapes for Saturday lunch. Or with waffles, peach compote and fluffy whipped cream on a Sunday morning. Getting the pairing right doesn’t need to be a science, as long as the dish  like the bubbly – is pure class. ALL THAT SPARKLES... Bubbly BFFs adore diamonds and Champagne. Or more specifically, a diamond (or two or three) in a glass of very expensive French Champagne used to pop a very important question. Bubbly BFFs fi nd it hard to say no when faced with so many sparkles! DRESSED TO THRILL Bubbly BFFs always look the part. There is a certain etiquette that comes with drinking bubbly, and these BFFs know it. They will never arrive dressed in sloppy T-shirts and sneakers, but rather in attire befitting the classic status symbol a bottle of bubbly commands. Bubbly BFFs are in a class of their own, are the envy of their followers and set the trend wherever they go. At this year's Tops at SPAR Wine show presented by the Cape Times, we don't expect it to be any different! Visit Winederland from 14-16 December at GrandWest, tickets available at www.ticketpro.co.za 