Unathi, 27, was shot and killed in an apparent jealous rage on Monday night. Unathi’s father, Dumatisile, said there was a lot of anger over the murder, which happened two days before Unathi and her ex-boyfriend were supposed to have appeared in court in relation to a protection order she had filed against him. Dumatisile said they were overwhelmed by the support they were receiving from Unathi’s friends and community members. He said social workers comforted the family yesterday. Her sister was devastated by the incident. Unathi and the accused were expected to attend a court case yesterday in relation to a court interdict Sabsana had filed against him earlier this year, when the ex-boyfriend dragged her out of a meeting she had with members of her stokvel. Commenting on the support they had received since her murder, Dumatisile said the family was grateful to Unathi’s friends, colleagues and community members. He said for the first time since the murder social workers had provided counselling “that lasted not less than an hour”. “The counselling helped the mother a lot as she was taking strain from what happened. The child also needed the counselling as everything happened in front of him,” said Dumatisile. The murder of Unathi, the owner of Unathi’s Takeaways, has outraged the community. She was allegedly shot 
multiple times by her ex-
boyfriend. Police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana said a murder case was being investigated. Rwexana said Unathi had gunshot wounds to her head and upper body. No arrests had been made. “The victims were assisted and referred for trauma counselling in order for them to deal with the traumatic incident,” said Rwexana. Sihle Ngobese, spokesperson for Social Development MEC Albert Fritz, said under normal circumstances police would refer the victims to 
the Thuthuzela Centre for counselling. He said he would contact the department’s social 
workers for an update on whether the family had been referred there. Dumatisile said Unathi had just dropped family members at their home after a church service and prayer meeting, and was preparing food for the family when they heard multiple gunshots. “Unathi said she felt like someone was following her the whole time,” said Dumatisile. He was washing his hands when he heard the shots and saw Unathi falling next to the kitchen door. According to the father, the shooter then ran away. Unathi’s mother, Mildred, said the rest of the family were in the dining room when the gunshots went off. “Her 10-year-old boy ran to her when she was down. ‘Vuka, vuka’ (wake up), he kept on calling her to wake up. We called for assistance and the police. She passed away in hospital. “Her son kept on asking when we were going to hospital to get her,” said Mildred. She said the ex-boyfriend was “insecure and abusive”. Unathi had wanted to leave him on many occasions but he would not accept it. “When she would try to be friendly with her customers, he would come and drag her, saying that they were her boyfriends,” said the grieving mother. Unathi was a breadwinner for the family and she had hired three employees to help her. One of Unathi’s friends, who spoke to the Cape Times on condition of anonymity, described her as “humble and friendly”.