The gay rights lobbyist, equal rights proponent and HIV/Aids activist would become part of the present and future of the university, its management announced. Buildings at 39 Victoria Street will be renamed as Huis Simon Nkoli House and will coincide with birthday celebrations of the university’s equality unit (EqU) and disability unit (DU), marking their two and 10 years of existence, respectively. Head of the EqU Jaco Greeff Brink said having Nkoli’s name on this house would echo the social justice foundation on which the EqU and DU were founded, both historically and looking to the future. “We couldn’t think of any other name than his, as this embodies the collaboration of two units. He was a fighter for equality, against unfair discrimination and the rights for all marginal groups and this is exactly what the two units are advocating for,” he said. Nkoli’s name and what it stood for had significant national and international stature and reverence, said Brink. The youth activist founded the Gay and Lesbian Organisation of the Witwatersrand in 1988 and along with LGBT activist Beverley Palesa Ditsie organised the first pride parade in South Africa held in 1990. He was a member of International Lesbian and Gay Association board, representing the African region and was one of the first gay activists to meet with President Nelson Mandela in 1994. Head of the DU Marcia Lyner-Cleophas said the move would increase the two units’ imprints and service excellence to staff and students. Dis-Maties chairperson Bongani Mapumulo said: “(Nkoli’s) rights activism and clear stance on non-discrimination appeals to the issues faced by minorities that coexist under the pressures of heteronormativity, HIV stigma and racialism. “Nkoli’s driven activism intersects with the struggles still faced by groups that remain on the outskirts of mainstream society of political and economic participation including women, racial minorities, people with disabilities and homosexuals." The university aims to create a more enabling environment inclusive to a diverse group of staff and students and celebrate Nkoli’s legacy, while looking forward to inspire and reflect back on the principles he stood for.