Fired Zimbabwe vice-president Emmerson Mnangagwa has refused to hold talks President Robert Mugabe, citing security concerns. In a five-page statement released on Tuesday morning, Mnangagwa, sacked by Mugabe on November 6, said he is aware the military on Monday night had said he is set to return home. "I can confirm the President Robert Gabriel Mugabe made contact with me and invited me to return home to form a discussion on the current political events in the nation. "I told the president that I would not return home now until I am satisfied of my personal security, because of the manner and treatment given to me upon being fired," said Mnangagwa. "Given the events that followed my dismissal on Monday, 6 November, my security details assigned to me and at my residency were immediately withdrawn. "This was contrary to  all protocols that have existed in Zimbabwe to former state vice-presidents. Security who are friendly to me warned me that plans were underfoot to eliminate me once arrested. It was in my security interest to leave the country immediately." Mnangagwa also threw his weight behind Tuesday's planned impeachment process in parliament and the various protests that have been taking place since his dismissal, saying he cannot oppose  the "will of the people". "The people of  Zimbabwe have spoken with one voice and it is my appeal to President Mugabe that he should take heed of this clarion call by the people of Zimbabwe to resign so that the country can move forward and preserve his legacy." Mnangagwa's statement comes as Zanu-PF and the opposition parties are going ahead with tabling the vote of no confidence in President Mugabe when Parliament sits on Tuesday afternoon (2.30pm). Crowds are preparing to start gathering in central Harare for a planned march to Parliament aimed at complementing the impeachment process. Opposition MDC youth leaders and activist group Tajamuka both confirmed that they are going ahead with the rally organised by General Constantino Chiwenga's late call for calm on Monday night. "The impeachment is going and we are marching to Parliament this morning," said MDC Youth League leader Happymore Dziva. Mugabe, meanwhile, unperturbed by the events, has called for a cabinet meeting in defiance of his dismissal as Zanu PF leader and calls for him to step down. Some of the cabinet members were party to his sacking as party leader on Sunday and have vowed not to attend the cabinet meeting set for State House Tuesday morning. ''Mugabe will attend that meeting alone... he has been fired as our first secretary of Zanu-PF and a resolution to recall him taken," said one minister. Chief secretary to cabinet Dr Misheck Sibanda insisted that the cabinet meeting will go ahead and his reasoning is that government must continue to function. "All government ministers, permanent secretaries and civil servants in general, are kindly advised to note the the government machinery must continue to function as usual, notwithstanding the current prevailing situation in the country," said Sibanda. By 10am there was no minister in attendance at the cabinet meeting that had been scheduled to start at 9am African News Agency