Tens of thousands of Zimbabweans
flooded the streets of Harare on Saturday, singing, dancing and
hugging soldiers in an outpouring of elation at the expected
fall of President Robert Mugabe, their leader of the last 37
years. In scenes reminiscent of the downfall of Romanian dictator
Nicolae Ceausescu in 1989, men, women and children ran alongside
the armoured cars and troops that stepped in this week to oust
the only ruler Zimbabwe has known since independence in 1980. The 93-year-old Mugabe has been under house arrest in his
lavish Blue Roof' compound in Harare, from where he has watched
support from his Zanu-PF party, security services and people
evaporate in less than three days. Emotions ran over on Harare's streets as Zimbabweans spoke
of a second liberation for the former British colony, alongside
their dreams of political and economic change after two decades
of deepening repression and hardship. Mugabe's downfall is likely to send shockwaves across
Africa, where a number of entrenched strongmen, from Uganda's
Yoweri Museveni to Democratic Republic of Congo's Joseph Kabila,
are facing mounting pressure to step aside. "These are tears of joy," Frank Mutsindikwa, 34, told
Reuters, holding aloft the Zimbabwean flag. "I've been waiting
all my life for this day. Free at last. We are free at last." Some held aloft placards reading "No to Mugabe dynasty" and
pumped their fists in the air in a sign of freedom, an echo of
the gesture made by Nelson Mandela when he walked
out of an apartheid jail in 1990. Others embraced the soldiers who seized power, shouting
"Thank you! Thank you!" in scenes unthinkable even a week ago. In one telling metaphor, a metal street sign bearing the
inscription R. Mugabe Rd had been torn down, crumpled up and
thrown in a litter bin. "These are our leaders now," said Remember Moffat, 22,
waving a picture of army commander Constantino Chiwenga and
Emmerson Mnangagwa, the former vice-president whose sacking this
month precipitated the coup. "My dream is to see a new Zimbabwe. I've only known this
tyrant called Mugabe my whole life." Importantly for the army, the massive crowds in Harare give
a quasi-democratic veneer to its intervention, backing its
claims that it is merely effecting a constitutional transfer of
power, which would help it avoid the diplomatic backlash and
opprobrium that normally follows coups.  For some Africans, Mugabe remains a nationalist hero, the
continent's last independence leader and a symbol of its
struggle to throw off the legacy of decades of colonial
subjugation. To many more at home and abroad, however, he was reviled as
a dictator happy to resort to violence to retain power and to
run a once-promising economy into the ground. Although Mugabe has been digging in his heels in the face of
army pressure to quit, he appears to have run out of road,
devoid of domestic or international support. Political sources and intelligence documents seen by Reuters
said Mugabe's exit is likely to pave the way for an interim
unity government led by Mnangagwa, a life-long Mugabe aide and
former security chief known as "The Crocodile". Stabilising the free-falling economy will be the number one
priority, the documents said. The United States, a long-time Mugabe critic, said it was
looking forward to a "new era" in Zimbabwe, while President Ian
Khama of neighbouring Botswana said Mugabe had no diplomatic
support in the region and should resign at once. "I don't think anyone should be President for that amount of
time. We are Presidents. We are not monarchs. It's just common
sense," Khama told Reuters. In a sign of the depth of his demise, Mugabe's ruling
Zanu-PF called on Friday for him to go, according to The Herald,
the state newspaper that has served as a loyal mouthpiece for
nearly four decades. Zanu-PF branches in all 10 provinces had also called for the
resignation of Mugabe's wife Grace, the headstrong first lady
whose ambitions to succeed her husband outraged the military and
much of the country. To many Zimbabweans, Grace is more familiar as "Gucci Grace"
on account of her reported dedication to shopping, or - in the
wake of the alleged assault in September of a South African
model - "Dis-Grace".  The extraordinary scenes in Harare are indicative of the
anger and frustration that has built up in nearly two decades of
economic mismanagement that started with the seizure of
white-owned farms in 2000, the catalyst of a wider collapse. The central bank tried to print its way out of trouble by
unleashing a flood of cash but that only made matters worse,
leading to hyperinflation that topped out at 500 billion percent
in 2008. At least 3 million Zimbabweans emigrated in search of a
better life, most of them to neighbouring South Africa. After stabilising briefly when Mugabe was forced to work
with the opposition in a 2009-2013 unity government, the economy
has collapsed again, this time due to a chronic shortage of
dollars. In October, monthly inflation leapt to more than 50 percent,
putting basic goods beyond the means of many in a country with
90 percent unemployment. Mugabe's only public appearance since the military took over
on Wednesday was at a university graduation ceremony on Friday
morning. Decked out in blue and yellow academic gowns, he
appeared tired, at one point falling asleep in his chair. A senior member of the Zanu-PF ruling party said it was only
a matter of time before he agreed to his own departure. "If he becomes stubborn, we will arrange for him to be fired
on Sunday," the source said. "When that is done, it's
impeachment on Tuesday." 