Africa’s second largest regional economic bloc ushered in a new political-economic era this week, thanks to the tremors in Zimbabwe. Still, the beginning of the end for Mugabe was not the only fireworks display this week. Angola was in the mix too; albeit due to a different but related reason. The experience, however, highlights that the SADC needs to grow some teeth to stop any repetition of a Zimbabwe quasi-coup. SADC observers at future elections should not simply report that the polls were free and fair, in the face of glaring irregularities. For its part, the African Union must, while respecting the sovereignty of its member states, improve its peer-review mechanisms to avoid placing the military in as awkward a position as it did in having to place a head of state under house arrest. The SADC has countenanced weakened institutions in its key economies for too long; and now change is overdue. These include Angola, the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and Zimbabwe. Angola ultimately outgrew José Eduardo dos Santos in September, and João Manuel Gonçalves Lourenço took over. Nicknamed J-Lo, Lourenço’s ascent to power marked an end to 38 years of the dominance of Angolan politics and economy by Dos Santos. This week, while the world lavished its attention on Zimbabwe’s coup-that-is-not-a-coup, Lourenço sacked Africa’s richest woman, Isabel dos Santos - the daughter of his predecessor and Africa’s richest woman - from Angola’s state oil company, Sonangol. She had been  appointed head by her father in June 2016. Angola is Africa’s second largest oil producer, so the head of Sonangol is a pivotal member of the ruling elite. Although she argued that her appointment to the position was purely due to her pedigree in business, the woman whose net worth is estimated over $3bn (R42bn) was considered by many as a way to protect dos Santos’s economic interests in oil. Now, 64-year-old Lourenço has unexpectedly appointed Carlos Saturnino as his secretary for oil as well. Saturnino had been removed from Sonangol by Dos Santos in 2016. Lourenço has also replaced Dos Santos’s central bank governor. If that is not a major shake-up, despite what lies beneath the surface, nothing ever will be. Zimbabwe, on the other hand, has eventually weaned itself off its 37-year-long Mugabe-dependency syndrome. By taking over the broadcasting machinery and placing Mugabe under house arrest earlier this week, the military helped Zanu-PF to do what it should have done long ago: putting Africa’s icon of the revolution out to pasture. By overstaying his welcome at the helm of the SADC’s rightful hub,  Mugabe turned from hero into villain. After leading Zimbabwe out of white minority rule, he did exceptionally well, especially by prioritising education. Zimbabwean professionals and entrepreneurs remain tops in Africa and the world over. However, by tripping over his efforts to rightfully drive land reform, among others, Mugabe joined the league of African big men who fail to read the signs coaxing them to go. With Angola and Zimbabwe done, the SADC has one more political tumour to expunge before it blows up: the DRC. These three member-states of the SADC are home to more than 110 million people. However, because of their political stagnation, the respective GDP figures of Angola, DRC and Zimbabwe remain at pedestrian levels of $89bn, $35bn and $16bn. Zimbabwe is smaller than Zambia ($19.5bn) and nearly the same as that of Botswana ($15bn). Had these economies - with their abundant mineral resource endowments - been run differently, they would be more than three or four times larger. These changes in Zimbabwe and Angola this year, and hopefully soon in the DRC, have been a long time coming and should be embraced. The SADC cannot progress without them. As for the constitutionality of all this, well, isn’t Zimbabwe a sovereign state?  *  Kgomoeswana is author of Africa is Open for Business; a media commentator and public speaker on African business affairs - Twitter Handle: @VictorAfrica ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media.