President Jacob Zuma failed to show up at the poorly attended launch of the annual 16 Days of Activism for No Violence against Women and Children campaign at Nelson Mandela University in Port Elizabeth on Saturday. Zuma was billed to address the event scheduled to start at 10am, but a statement issued by the Presidency some time afterwards said he would be represented at the event by Minister in the Presidency Responsible for Women Susan Shabangu. No reason was given for the change. Eastern Cape Premier Phumulo Masualle told those present that Zuma did not attend the event because "it was behind schedule". "We were expecting the president to be among us, but we also played a part in causing the disappointment due to our inability to keep the time. "The president had a tight schedule of other engagements. He was prepared to join us from 9am so he could address us at 10am, but we were late and that could [have] disrupted his schedule," Masualle said. Zuma was apparently due to meet an Angolan delegation and was also engaged in discussions about the changes that have occurred in Zimbabwe. Some people in the crowd expressed their disappointment, saying they were looking forward to "bid him farewell". However, others were quick to point out the poor attendance as the actual reason for his no-show. Some people also used the event to dish out T-shirts backing ANC presidential hopeful Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma. Eastern Cape Social Development MEC Nancy Sihlayi co-ordinated the busing in of people from old-age homes and children mobilised in various communities. By the time the event eventually started, the lower part of the hall was almost filled. This year marks the 19th anniversary of the 16 Days of Activism for No Violence against Women and Children campaign in South Africa. The campaign focuses on raising awareness of the negative impact of violence against woman and children, as well as on society as a whole. In her address, Shabangu praised the role played by police and the judiciary in the fight to counter violence against women and children. She singled out the high court's judgment finding Christopher Panayiotou guilty of the murder of his wife Jade. On Friday, he and an accomplice were handed life sentences for the murder. African News Agency