The school was given the surprise news ahead of the eagerly awaited first artist announcement for the festival. The Bellville school, whose motto is “Opportunities for All”, will give 16 young musicians the opportunity to showcase their talent when they perform on the Manenberg Stage. The school, a regular participant in the CTIJF’s Sustainable Training and Development programme, was accorded the honour of a performance due to “their outstanding commitment, and levels of discipline when it comes to their involvement in all our training workshops over the past year or so” according to festival director Billy Domingo. The Settlers High School is no stranger to live performance or Africa’s Grandest Gathering, having wowed audiences at the CTIJF 2017 Music & Careers concert, held at The Artscape Theatre. But graduating to one of the main festival stages “is a dream come true” said a beaming principal 
Shereen Gallie. “Our students work incredibly hard - on their academics and their music - and to be recognised for their efforts in this manner, is incredible. "I would like to thank espAfrika for not only this honour, but more importantly for the annual workshops they conduct. They provide invaluable insights into the entertainment industry, but also provide practical opportunities for young musicians to start perfecting their craft.” The CTIJF training and development programme provides a comprehensive range of learning opportunities for those interested in a career in South Africa’s vibrant arts and culture sector. It includes the six-week Music & Careers workshop programme, conducted on Saturdays leading up to the main event, musical direction, live performances, free master classes (available to the public), musical performances for young children, arts journalism and photojournalism courses. The festival will take place on March 23 and 24 . Tickets go on sale on Monday and will be available at www.computicket.com. The first artist announcement will be made on November 28.