CAPE TOWN - About 10 000 people were blown away by the talent on display at the 44th annual Southern African Clothing and Textile Workers Union (Sactwu) Spring Queen Festival at Athlone Stadium at the weekend. The Spring Queen is organised by Sactwu to showcase the work of local clothing designs, while nurturing the talent of models, singers and dancers from across the province through programmes such as Sactwu's Got Talent, and the Spring Queen senior and junior pageant. One of the highlights of the event was a special performance by Mi Casa. Performances by 11-year-old singer Shakr Engelbrecht, rapper Jucyn Mentoor and this year's Sactwu's Got Talent winner, Galliema Solomons, enthralled the crowd. Organiser Felicity Andrews said she has been with the event since its inception 44 years ago and the talent increases each year. "We held most of our events at the Union Walls and then at the Good Hhope Centre. We recently moved to a new venue (Athlone Stadium) and the people love it. "You will see them braaiing outside, or singing and dancing to songs that they know, while they support the clothing of the factory workers who manufactured it," she said. Sactwu member and organiser Fachmy Abrahams said that preparations were delayed due to the heavy winds that hit Cape Town last week, but thanks to teamwork nevertheless turned out to be a successful event. “The competition continues to inspire those working in often testing circumstances to show off their best work and be recognised for it, whilst also highlighting the plight of clothing and textile workers. "The event is also the largest fashion show featuring workers as the models,” he said. Out of 47 Spring Queen fashion pageants this year, Lusanda Ntintili (Trade Call Investments Apparel) was crowned the winner, Nosiphiwo Ngwanya 1st princess and Rachmat Daniels 2nd princess.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Junior winners of the Spring Queen festival were Keesha Johnson, dressed by Keedo International, and Shadieka Butler (Als Clothing), while Miss Personality Tamica Jones was dressed by Sweet Orr and Lybro. 