The Democratic Alliance has submitted an application to the Presidency in terms of the Promotion of Access to Information Act (PAIA) to access the report of the Heher Commission of Inquiry into Higher Education, commonly known as the Fees Commission, the DA said on Sunday. "This follows our numerous appeals to the (parliamentary) portfolio committee on higher education, the new minister and the President (Jacob Zuma) himself to release the report," DA spokesperson Belinda Bozzoli said. It was urgent and imperative that the public saw this report immediately. There were now multiple disturbing rumours in circulation which indicated that Zuma may have "gone rogue" and "done a Trump", she said. "Rumours reported in the City Press, Sunday Times and Mail & Guardian have it that he has set his sights on a path of ignoring the multimillion-rand report's cautious and considered findings." It had been over two months since Zuma received the report on August 31 and it was inconceivable that he should hold on to it this long. About 1.7 million university and Technical Vocational Education and Training (TVET) colleges students, and their parents, were in considerable distress, uncertain about financing the start of the 2018 academic year just two months away, Bozzoli said. Universities said they would not be able to function without a fee increase and were keen to hear if the government had a solution to their dilemma. As it stood, they were unable to announce fee increases without some indication from government as to possible support for them to do so, as had been the case for the past two years. The report was based on important submissions from all sectors, interested parties, and experts. It was vital that the public had access to it, she said. "There are now bizarre rumours of the president's alleged infatuation with a shallow and incomplete 'funding model', crafted by a student and friend of his daughter. "Rumours claim the president would like to ignore any professional advice, bypass normal Treasury procedures, cut social grants and VAT, and destroy other programmes within and outside of the Higher Education Department to allow him to announce 'fee-free higher education'," Bozzoli said. "Not only is this outrageous, but even if it were to happen none of the many and varied other problems under consideration by the nearly 800-page commission (report), including TVET funding, the NSFAS (National Student Financial Aid Scheme) system and many others, could possibly be addressed or solved by such an approach." These rumours were fed by Zuma’s failure to release the report and provide the country with wise and well considered guidance on higher education funding. He should now provide clarity on these very concerning rumours and releasing the report was the only way to put people’s fears at ease. Zuma's refusal to release the report had resulted in protests at a number of universities, with further damage to property. The futures of tens of thousands of students stood to be jeopardised by his inaction, and the DA would use every tool at its disposal to defend the youth and ensure they had access to the education they needed to improve their lives, Bozzoli said. African News Agency