This comes as opposition parties in the Western Cape Provincial Legislature called for Zille to resign as premier yesterday. Western Cape DA acting leader Bonginkosi Madikizela refused to be drawn into the matter and said: “Look, I would like to reserve my comment on this matter and I think the people who should respond on this matter is the federal executive and the national spokesperson.” While Social Development MEC Albert Fritz refused to comment, Transport and Public Works MEC Donald Grant said: “My information, because I am not a member of Fedex, is limited. I am just hoping the disciplinary hearing proceeds, as I read in the press.” Meanwhile the ANC said Zille humiliated the province and its people with her continuous Twitter attacks on people of colour. EFF provincial leader Bernard Joseph said: “The Democratic Alliance at last realise that Helen Zille is an undercover racist. With the analogue that everything that is done in the dark, will be exposed in the light has come back to haunt Zille. The EFF is not surprised that Zille has been suspended from the party that was built on lies, promises and non-deliverance to the poorest of the poor.” The embattled Zille has until  tomorrow to give reasons why her DA membership should not be suspended. Zille faces the axe for allegedly violating the DA’s social media policy after insinuating in a tweet that colonialism was not all bad. At the weekend, party leader Mmusi Maimane announced Zille’s suspension. Hours later the party’s federal executive said it had written to Helen Zille to signify its intention to temporarily suspend her from party activities until the conclusion of the disciplinary proceedings. “Her social media commentary and public utterances in connection with colonialism undermined our reconciliation project and there was no question that Zille’s original tweets and subsequent justifications have damaged the party’s standing in the public mind,” said DA Mmusi Maimane, who added that Zille continued to damage the party with various pieces of communication that sought  to undermine what the party tried to  achieve. According to Maimane, Zille had declined to apologise to South Africans and the DA for the damage she had done. Zille fired back saying she had not accepted that the DA has a right to find her guilty and penalise her before the hearing even takes place.