It’s long been a firm belief among broadcasters that radio can put a spring in your step or help you to relax after a rough day. Research now supports this theory, suggesting that the mood elevating effects of listening to radio and, more specifically, listening to music, isn’t just theory – it’s science. Research results provided to Inside Radio by USA Touchpoints, from a study focused on consumers between 18 and 64 years of age, found that Americans are 7% more likely to be happy, 35% more likely to be confident, 46% more likely to be excited and 51% more likely to feel hopeful while listening to radio. The study also found that, if you’re listening to radio, you’re 9% less likely to report feeling lonely and 13% less likely to say you’re bored. According to the study, this holds particularly true during the first half of the workday between 9am and 2pm, but develops even further in the 2:30pm to 6pm slot. “Whether you’re already in a good mood and want to build on that, or had a rough day and want to lift your spirits, your favourite radio station is the kind of company you want to keep”, says Jacaranda FM’s GM, Kevin Fine. Other insights revealed in Psychology Today, and focused more specifically on music, indicate that a McGill University study may be the first to show that an abstract reward – listening to music – as opposed to tangible reward, like eating and sleeping, causes the brain to release dopamine, the “feel good” neurochemical. “Our own research supports the fact that people want to listen to a station that understands them, tells a story, gives them the content they want to hear, plays them more of the music they love and really connects with them on a personal level”, says Fine. “This is why we’re continuously finetuning the content we put on air and playing longer threads of well-known hit music. By creating and leveraging this ‘happy place’ that radio is, and changing the way that people feel in a positive way, radio can change the world for the better.” (adapted from press release)