Witness Wesley Farrow, who was travelling to Cape Town on Saturday night by train, told the Cape Times he was traumatised by the incident. “The train was on its way from Bellville, and I saw through the doors between carriages how the robbers attacked him. People were screaming as the man was stabbed in the back and in his front and there was so much blood. "Another commuter blocked me from going to help, as he was afraid the attackers would then move to our carriage,” said Farrow. “There were security guards in our carriage. I was not sure if they were off-duty but they did nothing as all this was happening. I got off at Saltriver station because I couldn't handle what was happening and reported the matter to the security there,” said Farrow. He was unsure if the victim was alive or if security even reported the matter to the police. Police spokesperson FC van Wyk said Woodstock police were deployed to Woodstock railway station. “It is believed that while the complainant was on his way to work, he was approached by three men inside the carriage and one brandished a knife. The victim was stabbed on his upper left arm and the robbers grabbed his cellphone before exiting the train,” said van Wyk. He said an on-duty security guard reacted to a call for help from the victim and noticed the men jumping off the train and running, “He gave chase and caught one of the suspects, who was later arrested and revealed to be the one who stabbed the victim. The 29-year-old suspect was due to appear in the Cape Town Magistrate's Court yesterday on charges of aggravated robbery. Van Wyk said the remaining suspects were still at large and police are urging commuters not to display valuables when travelling. Anyone with information is asked to contact Woodstock Police on 0214862840 or crime stop on 0800 10111. Meanwhile the United National Transport Union (UNTU), representing almost 50% of Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa's employees said it informed the state-owned enterprise that its members will cease work on the notorious Central Line in the Western Cape until further notice. The union said Dries van der Walt, acting chief executive officer for Prasa Rail responsible for Metrorail and Mainline Passenger Services (MLPS) had arranged a meeting with UNTU’s Prasa leadership for later yesterday. Cape Times