Cape Town - A German national accused of rape, who faces eight sexually related charges, has been denied bail in the Blue Downs Magistrate s Court. This as the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) prepares to appeal a shockingly inappropriate sentencing of a Durbanville man found guilty of more than 2&nbsp;000 charges related to making and possessing child pornography. The German, Andreas Wolf, stands accused of rape, sexual assault, sexual exploitation and exposing children to pornography.Magistrate Vincent Ketye on Thursday told the court that Wolf sexually penetrated an 11-year-old boy.Wolf also coaxed the boy to masturbate and perform acts of oral sex, Ketye said.Allegations emerged that Wolf had groomed the child to lure other children to Wolf s home where he would have his way with them.The incidents allegedly occurred at one of Wolf s residences in Somerset West.State prosecutor Nathan Adriaanse read from an affidavit on Thursday, saying: Numerous victims have been identified and these incidents occurred over a period of time. The first victim reported the case during 2016 and he was 12 at the time.&nbsp;&quot;The victim explained he had run away from home to a farm during December 2015. While playing with a group of friends the (11-year-old) asked if they wanted to go with to his father s home. The (11-year-old) explained that what happened at the house was a secret. It is alleged Wolf then picked the group of boys up.Wolf allegedly had the victims remove their clothes and enter his home. The victims were told to take a shower where after he would have them naked on his bed and showed them pornographic videos. The victims were then told to perform oral sex on Wolf and he would then perform oral sex on them afterwards. Wolf is considered a flight risk, as he has family in Germany and is expected in court on August 17.Meanwhile, Durbanville resident Andries Retief was sentenced to eight years imprisonment, suspended for five years, by the Parow Magistrates Court in 2015, after child pornography was discovered in December 2010 by a couple who was house-sitting. They found the images on his laptop after he gave them the password and discovered that their 8-year-old was one of the children.&nbsp;In 2011, the parents of two of the children laid criminal charges against him, and he pleaded guilty to 2&nbsp;078 charges, including exposing children to pornography, making child pornography, and possession of child pornography.When handing down the sentence magistrate Amanda van Leeft said Retief had suffered psychologically and the State failed to prove he would re-offend. It s the State s case that the sentence disregards the interests of the community and the seriousness of the offences were not considered.In papers filed to the court, the State argues that the collection of pornographic images and films started in 2001 and continued until he was arrested in 2011. While the respondent was expanding his collection over the 10 years he not once asked for help with his problem . &nbsp;Leave to appeal the sentence was granted by We stern Cape High Court Judge President John Hlophe in October 2015. The appeal is set to be heard in the Western Cape High Court on Friday.Cape Times