The huge storm battering Cape Town has claimed five fatalities so far, including a family of four in Kraaifontein, after lightning struck their home, Disaster Management said, Earlier, a 60-year-old man died when an informal housing structure collapsed in Lavender Hill. Robert Daniels, spokesperson for the Western Cape Health Department’s Emergency Medical and Forensic Pathology Services, said: “A 60-year-old man tragically died when an informal housing structure collapsed at 11h54 in Rose Street, Lavender Hill earlier this morning. “Western Cape Government Health ambulance and rescue crews were dispatched at 11h57 and arrived on the scene at 12H02 where they came across the deceased, as well as another seriously injured man.” Earlier on Wednesday, authorities warned that the storm which had wreaked havoc across large parts of the city overnight was expected to peak only later during the day. James-Brent Styan, spokesman for Western Cape Local Government MEC Anton Bredell, said: “The storm has not yet reached its peak and travellers across the province today are advised to do so using extreme caution.” Roofs were ripped off houses in parts of Cape Town, trees uprooted, roads forced to close and electricity to various areas cut off as the monster storm coming in off the Atlantic coast hit the Mother City overnight. The City of Cape Town’s Disaster Risk Management Centre reported that two people – a woman and a four-year-old child – were injured when powerful winds ripped the roof off their home in Lavender Hill. The child was taken to Victoria Hospital. Roofs were also blown off in the Strand area, Kalkfontein, Delft, Mfuleni and Mandalay, while 15 people were displaced when their roofs were blown off in Imizamo Yethu in Hout Bay. Roof sheets had been blown off the Cavendish Square shopping mall, leading to the closure of surrounding roads. Almost 100 dwellings had been reported flooded in Macassar Village, leaving 400 people displaced, while several hundred more had been affected across the greater Hout Bay area. The City also reported trees uprooted in Durbanville, Delft, Plattekloof and Plumstead. A tree landed on a block of flats in Plumstead but luckily no one was injured. Cape Town’s famous Chapman’s Peak Drive was also closed due to the storm. Electricity cables were down in Athlone, Weltevreden Valley, Pelican Park, Schaapkraal, Goodwood, Boston and Parow Valley, while there were road closures at Main Road and Chestnut in Hout Bay due to an uprooted tree. Electricity was also reportedly out in Woodstock and areas of Mitchell’s Plain. The City’s Disaster Risk Management Centre said that during a follow-up meeting with the South African Weather Service, it emerged that “due to the approaching cold front coinciding with a spring tide, wave heights in excess of 12 metres are expected along the coastal areas of the Cape Peninsula”. “The City thus appeals to property owners along the Atlantic Seaboard and False Bay coastline to please take special precautions to protect their properties and businesses as the possibility of storm surges and high swells will increase the likelihood of flooding.” The City warned the public to stay away from the coastline for their own safety. The Western Cape Disaster Management Centre (WCDMC) was activated at the Provincial Emergency Operations Centre at Tygerberg Hospital ahead of the storm “to maximise the protection of the public’s health and welfare and protect critical infrastructure”. Styan said heavy wind and rain hit the west coast of the province and progressed eastwards during the course of Tuesday night, resulting in some damage across the province. “This took the form of fallen trees, buildings losing their roofs, electricity outages and road closures.” “Communities staying along the coastline are recommended to continue taking precautions, especially during the afternoon and evening. In addition, the public is cautioned to avoid dams, rivers and desist from outdoors activities including hiking throughout the day. “Average wind speeds between 55 and 70 km/h and gusts of between 80 and 90km/h were recorded throughout the evening,” Styan added. “Some of the more notable rainfall figures include, 45mm recorded in Grabouw.” Tugs were put on standby by the Transnet Port Authority to provide assistance in towing and holding boats in position in and out of port should the need arise. More than a million Western Cape learners remained at home across the province on Wednesday following a decision by authorities on Tuesday to suspend schooling for the day. JP Smith, the mayoral committee member for safety, security, and social services, had earlier cautioned residents along the Cape coastline to take extra precautions. “We recommend that the public stay away from the coastline tomorrow, including the Sea Point Promenade. Residents of areas right at the coast such as Bakoven, Camps Bay Main Road, Slangkop, Kommetjie, Small and Big Bay in Blouberg, Melkbosstrand, Strand etc. might want to consider moving their cars to higher ground if they can. "It is key that the general public stays away from the coastal areas for their own safety.” Chapman’s Peak has been closed due to mudslides and they are currently monitoring the roads in terms of clean-up operations due to debris caused by strong winds. The Huguenot tunnel is open to light vehicles and heavy vehicles are being rerouted through the Du Toit’s Kloof pass. Metrorail delays Metrorail also reported delays of more than an hour. · Closure of Transnet Freight Rail lines: Stikland, Malmesbury, Wellington and Muldersvlei services has been closed due to safety · Pantograph hook-up at Somerset-West: Trains from Cape Town terminate at Firgrove which will affect Eerste Rriver to Strand · Woltemade: Residual delays following an early morning signal failure; all central, north and Cape Flats trains are affected · Residual effect of faulty train earlier at Kalk Bay: affects the train service to Simon’s Town. Trains are operating under manual authorisation. The NSRI assisted in Kommetjie with the cleaning of debris. "Continuous contact with the Maritime Response Coordination Centre (MRCC) is maintained regarding sea traffic monitoring and it was reported that no vessels are in distressed," Styan said. School closures Schools were expected to reopen by Thursday, Styan said. This was confirmed by the spokesperson for Education MEC Debbie Schäfer, Jessica Shelver. The following schools were damaged due to the severe weather event: Metropole · Princeton High, Capricorn Primary, Plumstead High, Berglviet High, Vodacom Teachers’ Support Centre (Merrydale), Blomvlei Primary, The Vine School NPC, Impendulo Primary, Palm Park primary and Itsitsa Primary Cape Winelands Education District: · De Tuinen Primary, Riverview Primary and Victoria Primary Western Cape Department of Social Development (WCDSD) The service providers for social relief are on standby and WCDSD is awaiting verification from the municipalities. One SANDF Oryx aircraft is on standby for the evacuation of people, should the need arise, Styan said. All hiking routes have also been closed to the public. Electricity disruptions Eskom electricity disruption were reported in Albertinia/Stilbaai, Tulbagh, Caledon/Greyton, De Doorns, Touwsrivier, Ladismith, Franschoek, Worcester and Darling. Ladismith town’s water supply has been affected due to the electricity disruption. Eskom is attending to these areas.