Durban - Quality journalism without the “noise” was still possible. This was according to speakers at the World Association of Newspapers and News Publishers (WAN-IFRA) taking place in Durban this week. During a session on Thursday titled “The Next Big Thing”, Tony Haile, CEO of a new start-up called Scroll in the USA, and Torry Pedersen, the Head of Publishing at Schibsted, a media house in Norway, spoke about the tricky issue of reading news amidst a flurry of advertising pop-ups and ambush marketing tactics. Haile, whose company has partnered with some of the world’s biggest news organisations, said he was dedicated to solving the problem of how to have sustainable, quality journalism on a free and open web. He said Scroll aimed to create a sustainable experience that put amazing content in front of engaged users “without all the noise”. Haile said they wanted to pierce filter bubbles and leverage economic models that could afford uncomfortable truths and “escape the distraction economy and focus on what’s important again”, namely quality journalism. Haile, who started Scroll last year, said the company had shown that it was possible to build a system where news organisations could have a sustainable reader engagement without advertising. Under this system, he said, publishers would have full control and still make money. The challenge, however, he said, was for publishers to work together in driving readers to content they loved and wanted to read. Pedersen, whose Schibsted title is Norway’s most read newspaper, said their mission was to “reinvent our news to deliver and tell the news in a way that makes users feel like they have their own intelligent personal editor”. He said in the era of information overload and intrusive ads it was time to make news more personal to the reader. Challenges remained however, he noted, saying that publishers still delivered sub-par news experiences for readers, were losing control of distribution to third parties and were challenged by digital monetisation. – African News Agency (ANA)