The Office of the Public Protector has announced that it will be conducting a preliminary investigation to ascertain whether there is merit in some of the allegations that have been published amid the #GuptaLeaks saga. This is in particular regarding governance issues at state-owned enterprises Eskom, Prasa and Transnet. These allegations point to improper or dishonest acts or offences with respect to public funds at the state-owned enterprises as well as well as improper or unlawful enrichment by certain public officials at these institutions, Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane said in a statement on Wednesday night. The probe comes after media reports this month on up to 200 000 e-mails allegedly detailing communication between the Gupta family and ministers and officials. Until now Mkhwebane has only noted the "disturbing allegations" and earlier this month cited the lack of a written complaint being lodged to her office as the reason for her not getting involved, as well as her huge case backlog preventing her from her getting involved on her own initiative. The investigation will also put the controversial reappointment of Brian Molefe as head of Eskom under the microscope. Molefe is challenging his dismissal in court. Last year, former public protector Thuli Madonsela's initial state capture report about alleged improper and unethical conduct by President Jacob Zuma and other state institutions relating to the Gupta family was released last year. A review application by Zuma on the recommendations of that report is expected to be heard in October. The ANC has been calling for a probe into the e-mails, but Zuma has been insisting on personally appointing the head of a judicial inquiry into related “state capture” allegations detailed in a report by Madonsela. Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa has revealed in Parliament that Zuma was close to setting up a commission of inquiry into state capture. Zuma was busy consulting with the lawyers on the matter, Ramaphosa told the National Assembly while answering questions. Ramaphosa said he personally supports an independent judicial inquiry into allegations of state capture so that the veracity of the claims can be tested and those implicated have an opportunity to clear their names. “State capture in any form is abhorrent and should not be tolerated by South Africans,” Ramaphosa said. “Much evidence has been published about the undue influence of some people who have been found to have had undue influence regarding a number of institutions of state in relation to non-transparent appointments and procurement decisions. These allegations are clearly of grave concern to many South Africans.”