A 2.4-metre shark is terrifying bathers at beaches near the tourist hot spot of Magaluf. Panicked bathers ran out of the sea after a blue shark came close to the shore at midday on Saturday in Illetas, Majorca. And on Sunday authorities closed another beach following a second sighting off nearby Cala Major, a 10-minute drive east along the coast towards Palma. The beach has now reopened, although lifeguards in the water were stopping people from swimming too far out. Others kept watch on rocks near the beach so they could alert colleagues if the fish returned. One local said first aiders sounded the alarm by yelling: 'Everyone out of the water.' A local council spokesman said it was believed to be the same one that had terrified bathers in Illetas. The new scare happened around 9am on Sunday, according to reports. Lifeguards are said to have ordered people out of the water before hoisting up the red flag and alerting police. Because it happened earlier on in the day there were less people in the sea at the time. A spokesman for Calvia Council, which covers Illetas, confirmed the blue shark had approached the shoreline between midday and 1pm on Saturday and said it was thought to be the same one seen on Sunday morning. She added: 'It approached the beach at Illetas yesterday between 12 and 1pm. It was kept under control and the beach is being watched as well today. The one seen off Cala Major appears to be the same one. It has been kept under close watch since early morning.' According to reports, the shark came and went within five minutes on Saturday, sparking pandemonium among those who had seen it as well as those who hadn't but were caught up in the drama caused by bathers racing out of the water. Extraordinary photos taken by stunned onlookers show the shark swimming towards a group of people, including children, on lilos. Civil Guard were alerted and Civil Protection workers monitored the area for several hours afterwards to make sure the shark, known as a tintorera in Spanish, did not reappear. A spokesman for Calvia Council said the shark spotted off Cala Major is thought to be the same one seen on Saturday at midday in Illetas. The fish is thought to have neared the shore after becoming disorientated and vanished after swimming back out to sea. A blue shark was blamed for an attack on a swimmer off a popular Ibiza holiday beach last month which left him needed emergency hospital treatment. The Spanish pensioner was treated for a two-inch gash to his hand just over a week ago after being bitten off the beach at Playa d'en Bossa, home to famous clubs like Ushaia and one of the most popular destinations on Ibiza for British and Irish tourists.