The Western Cape ANC says it will be going to the party's policy conference this weekend with proposals which strengthen some organs, including a call for lifestyle audits for all leaders.The policy proposals were discussed at the weekend by the ANC s provincial executive, a meeting which concluded in the early hours of Sunday morning. On organisational renewal, ANC Western Cape secretary Faiez Jacobs said the ANC s provincial executive had a very lengthy, detailed discussion on the state of the party.Among some of the policy proposals to ensure the ANC was more responsive and adept to deal with some of the challenges facing it, was that &quot;we need a smaller NEC&quot;.&quot;We are advocating the view that we need an NEC of 40. We support the idea of two deputy secretary generals because the workload of the organisation is quite a lot (sic), said Jacobs.The NEC currently consists of 80 members. The Western Cape ANC also wants to formalise the ANC s integrity commission through a party constitutional amendment. The integrity commission should have more teeth, should be institutionalised. Lifestyle audits must be implemented, said Jacobs.The ANC s integrity commission last year recommended that disciplinary steps be taken against former ANC Western Cape chairperson Marius Fransman, who was eventually booted from his position after his membership to the party was suspended for five years by the national disciplinary committee. The integrity commission must be above reproach. They must be able cadres that have no interest but they must have teeth to ensure that we are able to deal with the issues of integrity for our communities and our people, said Jacobs.The Western Cape also wants to see lifestyle audits being conducted on all the leaders who will be elected at the ANC s elective conference in December, from the president, right down to all the NEC members, PECs and RECs . We need to redefine the structure and management of the general councils, the regional general councils. We need to place greater emphasis on better management of the ANC structures, said Jacobs.The Western Cape ANC also wanted the party's policy conference to adopt a membership development programme which would empower the party s members so that they can become activists, he added.On economic transformation, the Western Cape ANC says monopoly capital remains the problem due to a concentration of ownership. We need to ensure that we get shared and inclusive growth in our economy. It s not about black or white monopoly capital, but how do we deal with the deprivation and inequalities of joblessness. We don t want to replace an Anton Rupert with a Gupta. We want to ensure there s more equity and that our economy works for our communities, said Jacobs.