Cape Town – #OperationSA and the Al-Imdaad Foundation have launched an urgent appeal for funds to assist victims of the devastating storms and fires in the Western Cape. #CapeRelief was set up on Thursday morning in response to calls for assistance from thousands affected by the storms in and around Cape Town and by the fires in Knysna. "Our target is to raise at least R1 million within 24 hours," said Yusuf Abramjee from #OperationSA. "The money will go directly to the Al-Imdaad Foundation who have teams on stand-by to buy essential items such as food, blankets and clothing. We will deliver the aid without delays," said Abramjee. "We also have volunteers who will distribute the much needed aid," he added. #OperationSA raised almost R14m earlier this year to assist the victims of the Syrian war. Six charities benefited. "We appeal to South Africans to again open their hearts and dig deep into their pockets and let's assist those affected by the storms and fires. They need our help and they need it now," said Abramjee. "We have a 100% donation policy," he added. Yaseen Theba from #OperationSA said pledges would be taken via SMS, WhatsApp and email. Details for pledges SMS/WhatsApp: 072 399 9999 Email: info@operationsa.org You can also pledge via the website: www.operationsa.org Updates on the total pledge will be posted on the website regularly. Qari Ziyaad Patel from the Al-Imdaad Foundation said: "We cannot sit back and watch the devastation. We need to help those in need with urgency and we appealing to South Africans to open support #CapeRelief. "We also want corporates to donate. We challenge them to pledge and continue making a difference," Patel said. "Let's act and act now!" Abramjee called on NGO's, community groups, religious organizations to also mobilise. Account details for donations: Al-Imdaad Foundation First National Bank 62102373206 Branch: 220325 (Estcourt) Reference: AIF21698 Cape Relief Visit www.operationsa.org and www.alimdaad.com for more. * Pick n Pay will gather and deliver any online purchases made on their website in aid of Knysna Fire Relief. Click here for more info.