Johannesburg - Guests staying at the new Signature Lux hotel in Nelson Mandela Square, Sandton, can bypass waiting time in the lobby by doing their own online check-in ahead of arrival. Ariane Systems, the world leader in self-service check-in/out technology for the hospitality industry, available in South Africa through exclusive reseller, Nu Menu Solutions, launched its web check-in service this month (June) at the first of five Signature Lux hotels scheduled to be opened in South Africa over the next 18 months.  Gary Ernstzen, managing director of Nu Menu Solutions, says the solution prompts eligible guests to check-in online the day prior to their booked stay either online through the website or via the iRiS App. “They will receive an automated email from which they can review or change reservation details, add additional conveniences such as parking passes and pay online.”  The confirmation email will provide detailed instructions on how to retrieve their room key from the on-site kiosk. This can be done by entering a four-digit code or scanning a QR code at the key dispenser. The QR code, which is displayed in Apple’s PassBook, is new to Ariane’s check-in process – making Signature Lux one of the first clients in South Africa to benefit from the technology. “Providing self-service definitely does not mean a lack of service. On the contrary it contributes to our guests comfort and improves their experience,” says Paul Kelley, Managing Director of Signature Lux Hotels. Kelley says another great feature for regular customers is the opportunity to bypass the check-in kiosk completely. “If a guest has stayed at the hotel once we will have captured their details on our inhouse reservation system which ensures that all sensitive guest information is protected in the Cloud. This effectively means we can forward them their room number as well as mobile guest key on route to the hotel and allow them to completely bypass the kiosk,” he says.  The experience extends from the check-in to the room experience. At Signature Lux guests can utilise the hotel App, powered by iRiS, which replaces the traditional in-room guest information book. “There are no hard-wired telephones in our rooms. Using any smart device our guestscan call room service, check on other services and even select a meal of their choice,” says Kelley. BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE