In the midst of franchise mania, the studio is launching its own universe of monster flicks, and the Tom Cruise-led action thriller heralds the start of a world that may include The Bride of Frankenstein, The Invisible Man and The Wolfman, to name a few. That’s some pressure the movie doesn’t shoulder well, considering it’s hardly the unqualified success of other trial balloons. In fact, The Mummy might make a viewer wonder whether this universe will even take off at all. It won’t be for a lack of star power. Cruise plays Nick Morton, a brave, foolish soldier of fortune who, along with his buddy Chris (Jake Johnson), scours the Middle East looking for antiquities to loot and sell on the black market. During one such trek he stumbles upon an Egyptian crypt. But as his recent bedfellow, archaeologist Jenny Halsey (Annabelle Wallis), breathily describes it, “This is not a tomb - it’s a prison”. We already know what that means, thanks to some thoroughly informative voice-over narration by a certain Dr Jekyll (Russell Crowe), who reveals the identity of the woman buried at this site. The daughter of a pharaoh, Ahmanet (Sofia Boutella) made a pact with Set, the god of death, before murdering her father, his wife and their newborn baby so that she could take the throne. She was caught before she could carry out the prophesy - using a fancy dagger to kill a man so that Set would have his very own body - and was mummified and buried alive. She’d be forever stuck under a pool of mercury if Nick’s reckless gunfire didn’t upend the complex cable-and-pulley system holding her there. The rest of the movie, directed by Alex Kurtzman, is mostly chase scenes with the mummy on the loose in England. Nick joins forces with Jenny and her boss, Jekyll, who is hammered into the story so that we don’t forget this is the start of a franchise rather than a stand-alone movie that already has plenty going on without yet another plot thread. Some of the action is thrilling, especially a brilliantly choreographed plane crash that has Nick and Jenny tossed around the cabin before he straps her into a parachute and pulls the cord. But the big thrills and few laughs are no match for the cumbersome, convoluted story, not to mention the non-existent chemistry between Cruise and Wallis. If something is in fact being launched with The Mummy, it’s not off to a very snappy start. The Washington Post 