Parliament has slapped ANC MP and national executive committee member Pule Mabe with a fine of 15 days of his salary and a reprimand for flouting the members code of conduct. This is after the Joint Committee on Ethics and Members Interests investigation into a complaint against Mabe found that he had breached the code of parliamentarians. The complaint was lodged after the release of the public protector s report into allegations of maladministration at the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa).It was alleged that Mabe s company, KG Media, was improperly awarded a tender by Prasa to produce the Hambanathi magazine and that the contract was unlawfully extended. It was further alleged that Mabe, the former executive corporate affairs manager at Prasa, was improperly paid a salary after his resignation from Prasa in 2008/2009, the committee report said.The code of MPs prohibits parliamentarians receiving any benefit including but not limited to a tender or a contract with an organ of state . They are also required to declare their directorship.In their final report, committee co-chairpersons Amos Masondo and Omie Singh found that Mabe still had shares in the Kedibone Trust, which held 100% shares of KG Media, and that he had benefited from the renewal of the Prasa contract with KG Media in March 2015. An estimated 15 days of the salary amounts to half of his monthly remuneration, totalling more than R40000. Ordinary MPs earn R1.03m a year and R85833 a month.Mabe disputed the committee s initial finding that he benefited, arguing that he had erroneously disclosed that he was a beneficiary of the Kedibone Mabe Trust, and that his children were the actual beneficiaries.However, the committee concluded that he still benefited from the renewal of the contract.The committee said the allegations of improper payment to Mabe occurred before his deployment to Parliament .Mabe did disclose his interest in KG Media upon joining Parliament. On the disclosure of financial Interest related to KG Media, Mabe did disclose his directorship in 2014, before his resignation as a director of the company,&quot; the committee said.Meanwhile, former DA MP Makasule Gana escaped sanction. He was investigated following a complaint that he failed to disclose sponsorship received in support of his campaign for federal chairperson at the 2015 electoral conference of the DA. Gana resigned with effect from November 14, 2016. &quot;As Mr Gana resigned, his membership of the National Assembly, the joint committee does not have jurisdiction over him, as he is no longer a Member of Parliament. Also escaping sanction was the ANC s Peace Mabe, who was sworn in as a councillor in Mogale City last year without resigning as an MP, as required by the constitution.Parliament received legal advice that Mabe was lawfully elected to take up office as a municipal councillor. and thereby automatically ceased to be an MP, and that her choice was irrevocable.