The family from Montana, who asked not to be identified as they fear for their safety, say their ordeal took place shortly before 3am on Sunday. The homeowner say she lives with her siblings and cousins and their children in the house. Two weeks ago their home was burgled and the burglars took all their CCTV cameras. The woman says they felt violated and thought their nightmare was over, but two weeks later, she says the same gang came back. The woman says they removed vibracrete slabs to access her home. She says shortly before 3am, she and her brother woke up to the sound of people in her yard and went to the window to see what was happening. “We went around the house and we saw about seven men. My brother shouted that they have a gun, so we ran back inside the house,” she says. During this time, her cousin, who also lives on the property with her newborn baby, came out of her room to find a man pointing a gun in her face. * Video contains strong language. Viewer discretion is advised. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. “I heard the window breaking and I had my phone in my hand to phone the police. I saw the guy with the gun and he said: ‘Hey, jou p***, gee my daai phone (Hey, you c***, give me that phone)’,” she explains. The cousin says she gave the gunman her phone and ran off with her child. The homeowner says she pressed the alarm panic button and while the burglars were all inside one of the rooms, the family managed to lock the burglars inside as they escaped to the garage. The burglars eventually got out of the room and then started to raid valuables including the television, sound system, clothes and takkies. The family locked themselves in the garage and “hoped the skelms (burglars) would not break down the door”. Meanwhile, their neighbour heard screams for help and called Bishop Lavis police. The homeowner says despite the swift response from cops, the burglars scattered in different directions and escaped. “We are very scared. I don’t sleep at night anymore and one of the children is having nightmares of the incident,” the woman says. Police spokesperson Sinathi Joni confirmed the incident and says no arrests have been made. Anyone with information is asked to call the investigating officer on 021 935 9860. Daily Voice