The City says the continued investment in CCTV is critical to a number of the transformational priorities set out in the City s Organisational Development and Transformation Plan.This comes after safety and security Mayco member JP Smith assessed the impact of two cameras that went live in August last year at a cost of R1.2 million along Langa s Washington Street. The cameras are the first within the heart of Langa and augment three others that have been monitoring the major routes abutting the suburb for several years. The City says another camera will be rolled out later this year, courtesy of ward allocation funding. The cameras are an investment in the community s safety, but they also form part of efforts to raise Langa s profile as a tourism hub. We ve invested a lot in the revitalisation of the cultural precinct in the area and the more visitors we can drive to Langa, the greater the economic and social benefits to the community, said Smith.The additional camera planned for Langa is one of 36 ward allocation-sponsored CCTV installations in the next 12 months, valued at just over R5.3m, he said. Licence plate recognition cameras will be installed at Hout Bay, Sea Point, the Bo-Kaap and Mowbray, while 29 CCTV installations will be done in various wards/areas. I m enthused by the number of ward councillors who have started investing ward allocation funding in safeguarding their communities. The safety and security directorate simply doesn t have the funding to roll out CCTV cameras at a rate that would satisfy everyone, so the ward allocations are a welcome boost to our efforts to build a safer Cape Town for all, he said. Smith said the Metro Police department s Strategic Surveillance Unit (SSU) will also spend R9.5m on installations in Kraaifontein, Wallacedene, Kewtown and Bokmakierie in Athlone. The SSU currently monitors a network of 564 cameras across the city. The planned installations will increase the network of cameras to more than 600. The continued investment in CCTV is critical to a number of the transformational priorities set out in the (plan). Not only does it aid efforts to ensure excellence in basic service delivery by detecting potential incidents that require attention, but it also ensures safer communities, added Smith .From January to March 2017, the system detected 3065 incidents. Of these, just over 30% were criminal in nature and resulted in 72 arrests.