This quaint town is surrounded by majestic mountain ranges and secluded valleys, and is worth exploring for a winter break. Within an hour’s drive from Cape Town, Wellington offers real hidden gems with country-style cuisine, fabulous wines, stylish accommodation and the customary warm hospitality that the area is renowned for. Explore off-the-beaten track wine farms, enjoy the magnificent natural beauty of the region and simply catch your breath. Winter is the perfect time to experience the Wellington lifestyle. Known for the best terroir-driven wines in the country, wine tasting should be at the top of your itinerary. For a delightful food and wine pairing, visit Perfect Place in Church Street. Travel along the picturesque Bodal Road and stop at the charming Imbuko Wines for a pairing with a difference. Try the tantalising Van Zijl Jam Tasting Experience with vanilla cabernet jam, butterscotch shiraz jam and coffee pinotage Jam served with a freshly baked Portuguese roll and Babybel cheese. There are plenty of hidden treasures in this beautiful valley, so it might be a great idea to book an overnight stay to make the most of your breakaway. Diemersfontein Wine & Country Estate has a special winter offer of R550 per person per night for accommodation in their luxurious Manor House or Garden Rooms, including breakfast and a bottle of Diemersfontein Pinotage. Lady Loch Guest House offers various amazing relaxation and retreat packages, while Val du Charron Wine & Olive Estate has a 15% discount offer on accommodation during winter. Dunstone Country House is introducing a fabulous winter special with 25% off on accommodation in their guest house or self-catering facilities, including breakfast, afternoon tea, a sundowner wine tasting, and a three-course dinner at The Stone Kitchen bistro. Grand Dédale Country House, winner of the Africa’s Best Classic Boutique Hotel in 2016, is once again presenting their incredible romantic season package for the ultimate in luxurious tranquillity. Other stops worth exploring are the fabulous estates of Au d’Hex and Linton Park - all tracing their routes back to the days of the early Cape settlers and showcasing the unsurpassed beauty of the Wellington area. *  For details on Unwind in Wellington winter offers, visit www.wellington.co.za