IF YOUR dad is a grab-life-by-the-horns type of guy, a pair of socks is just not going to cut it this Father's Day. For him, life is about thrills and the next adrenaline rush. And if you're all out of ideas on what to gift him, well, we've got a few ideas that will have him saying every year "remember that time..." CAPE TOWN 1. What lies below Is dad a fan of ancient architecture or an avid history buff? Figure Of 8 tunnel tours takes you out of your comfort zone and beneath the Mother's City streets. In the same vein as Discovery Channel's popular Strip The City series, their Below The Surface tour explores underground tunnels with historical significance and provides vital information on the city's ancient water sources. More info: 021 439 3329 2.To infinity and beyond There's no better feeling than the wind in your hair as you fly like a bird over some of Cape Town's most famous landmarks. Signal Hill is the perfect spot for thrill seekers. With majestic views that provide Instagram fodder for extreme selfies, it's also the take-off spot for paragliding flights. One such company is Para Taxi that does tandem flights from Lion's Head as well as Sir Lowry’s Pass. More info: www.para-taxi.com 3. Branching out Bring out your dad's inner child with Acrobranch. It's a treetop experience dedicated to offering children and adults alike a unique adventure. With an adventure park in Constantia Nek, it boasts panoramic views of the Constantia Valley and the surrounding mountains. Obstacle courses consist of tree top high ropes and tricky crossings with ladders, tunnels, walkways and bridges. More info: http://acrobranch.co.za/outdoor-activity-parks/cape-town-constantia/ 4. Coasteering along Coasteering is the new adventure sport that is similar to mountaineering, but without the mountain. Just be prepared to don a wet suit and a personal flotation device, and dive into the Cape's oceans to view the sea life up close and personal. Gravity Adventures are the pioneers of coasteering in Cape Town. Their expeditions will have you exploring hidden coves and gullies near Boulders, swimming through kelp forests, and if you dare, tackle adrenaline-charged rock jumps. Feeling a bit timid? Don't worry, experienced guides and safety boats form part of the trip. More info: 021 683 3698 5. Fun for the whole family Tobogganing is a great activity for the entire family. Cool-Runnings' 1.25km toboggan track in Tygervalley is where speed freaks can reach 40km per hour on a downhill steel half-pipe. It's not for faint-hearted, but it does bring out everyone's competitive spirit – young and old. All you do is steer and regulate your speed with the pulley system, but we guarantee after your first trip down, you'll be testing your limits around those hairpin bends. More info: 021 949 4439 JOBURG A campaign called Welcome Outside is aimed at getting Joburg’s residents outside in the winter. Here are some ideas from them: 1. Do your exercise outside. Whether it’s a walk or a jog, as long as you wear layers of clothing and protect your skin, you can definitely exercise outside. Looking for a great location? Visit the James and Ethel Gray Park on Atholl Oaklands Road. This park is home to an assortment of feathered residents. The Sandspruit River flows through its 36 hectares, creating an attractive, tranquil atmosphere. Alternatively, visit Golden Harvest Park. Located on First Avenue, Northgate, this park is immaculate and features rolling walks around a dam and indigenous bushveld. The scenic park is a secret treasure about which many are unaware. 2. Watch wildlife. You may have heard it before, but there is no better time to enjoy animal life than in winter. The bushes thin out and lose colour, improving visibility considerably. Visit the Rietfontein Nature Reserve with your partner or family. It is the home of the FreeMe Wildlife Rehabilitation Centre, boasts a circular walking trail that is well maintained and is the perfect spot to sight the myriad of birds here. If you’re based in Roodepoort, Kloofendal, a cultural heritage, and ecotourism facility is one of the first nature reserves in Joburg and offers a great escape from city life. The reserve has remains of early gold mining activities and is recognised as the first gold mine in Johannesburg. This reserve is home to a number of small mammals such as reebuck and dassie. 3. Bird Watching. South Africa provides an exquisite habitat for a variety of colourful birds. Spectacular bird watching can be experienced almost anywhere in the country. One location that is great bird watching is the Cumberland Bird Sanctuary. The sanctuary boasts an incredible bird life, over 80 different species, particularly well-known known for the pair of black Sparrow-Hawks that breed in the sanctuary. In the middle of Cumberland Bird Sanctuary is a little dam. There is also a picnic spot with tables and benches. Take your hot chocolate or coffee along with you. 4. Something for curious kids. Children are naturally curious and creative. By encouraging more outdoor play you will encourage more physical activity. The Delta Park is the home of the Delta Environmental Centre, where a wide range of fascinating wildlife related courses are offered to adults and children. This includes holiday programmes for children between the ages of six and 13. The courses are facilitated by professional staff. Take the kids to Hyundai Sky Park. This park is great for kids because it is well equipped with an interactive children's play area, but if you want them to kick a ball or run around, take them to Innesfree Park. Located in busy Sandton, the park boasts lush green lawns and leafy trees. The park boasts two tranquil dams and plenty of open space for picnics. Due to its size, Innesfree Park often hosts large-scale events. 5. Take a bicycle ride. Take family or friends out on a bicycle ride around Zoo Lake. Zoo Lake is a favourite for many of Joburg’s residents. It also boasts the Coronation Fountain and is a popular spot for walking your dog and enjoying a meal at one of the restaurants or pub. 6. Get in touch with nature. Despite a busy life, slow down and take the time to enjoy and appreciate the outdoors this winter. Visit Sandton Central Park. This park is small, intimate and located in the heart of Sandton. It occasionally hosts live concerts and other events. The park boasts a grassed amphitheatre, sculptured garden beds, indigenous trees, solar powered lights, seating and a magnificent garden. Sandton Central Park is the ideal spot to enjoy a quick coffee and lunch. 7. Visit Joburg Zoo! The zoo is one of the most popular local attractions in Joburg, with animals from around the world including those from the Amazon Basin, the Big 5, white lions and the aquarium. DURBAN 1. A brewery tour  If your dad enjoys celebrating the end of a long day with an icy beer, a brewery tour might be the Father's Day adventure you’ve been looking for. The Kwazulu-Natal province has an incredible beer route that offers a selection of beer brands, each with its own distinct flavour. Some local spots to put on your tour:  Nottingham Road Brewery, the oldest surviving microbrewery in KZN you can find them just off the R103 on the outskirts of Nottingham Road village.  Situated at 4 Wootton Ave in Botha's Hill, Porcupine Quill Brewing Company has some of the finest craft beer in the country.  The Shongweni Brewery offers a range of unique, locally brewed, globally inspired beers. Find them Robsons's, Shongweni Brewery Estate, Gillitts, B1 Shongweni Valley. The views are beautiful and something the whole family will enjoy, just make sure you have a designated driver.   2. Reel 'em in  What’s more reminiscent of quality time with dad than a fishing trip? Reclining on camping chairs, beverage in hand, bonding over the serenity of waiting patiently for that first catch. KZN has a variety of recreational fishing spots stretching from Kosi Bay in the north to Durban in the south. Make a day of it by braaing and picnicking with the family. If your father is an avid angler, take him to one of his favourite fishing location to make the day more special.  3. The closest shave he’ll ever have  Combining timeless barbershop tradition and atmosphere with modern trends and styles, Sweeney’s Barbershop in Umhlanga is equipped with vintage barber’s chairs. Offering “ the best and closest shave complete with a straight edge razor, shaving cream brush and hot towel,” this spot is perfect for your old school dad.  Contact Sweeney’s Barbershop for more information: 021 418 7700   4. Fun on four wheels If your dad has a taste for adrenaline inducing adventures in the outdoors then quad biking might be the solution to all your Father’s Day woes. Spend the day venturing over rolling hills, across natural and unpredictable terrain . Tours are unique, fun and are sure to promise memories to last a lifetime. All levels of riders from beginners to pro’s are catered for. For contact details and more information visit the Dirty Boots webpage.