An intense cold front is expected to affect the Western and Northern Cape from tomorrow until Thursday. Heavy rain (50mm in 24 hours) is possible over the western parts of the Western Cape tomorrow. The highest rainfall is expected over the western mountainous areas. Further showers are expected in the west overnight into Thursday. The front may also lead to snowfalls over high-lying regions of the western half of the Western Cape, and the southern high ground of the Northern Cape. Snowfalls are possible tomorrow afternoon and evening, but the majority of snowfalls are expected on Thursday. There is a chance of some disruption due to these snowfalls. The intense front will cause gale-force winds (65-90km/* ) along the south-western coast tomorrow, spreading to the southern coastline on Thursday. Gale-force winds can also be expected over the southern interior of the Northern Cape and most of the Western Cape interior. The effects of the weather system are also to be seen in the sea state, with high to very high seas and wave heights greater than 6-8m expected south of Alexander Bay from tomorrow afternoon, and reaching 9-12m between Lamberts Bay and Cape Agulhas, spreading along the south coast by Thursday. These waves will also have high energy with a long wave period, which will very likely cause storm surges and damage to the coastal regions all along the west and south-west coast and, to a lesser degree, the south coast due to the orientation of the bays and the westerly to south-westerly swell and wind conditions. City Mayco Member for Safety and Security and Social Services JP Smith said: “All City services and relevant external agencies are on standby to deal with the consequences of the severe weather that has been forecast. “This includes clearing away uprooted trees, attending to other infrastructure like roadways affected by strong winds or potential flooding, and dealing with any potential power disruptions, etc. “The City will also make emergency shelter and associated humanitarian relief available in the event that any people are displaced as a result of the frontal system.” Smith said the public could report any emergency incidents to the City’s Public Emergency Communication Centre at 021 480 7700 from a cellphone, or 107 from a landline. Meanwhile, provincial dam levels stand at 17.6%. Local Government, Environmental Affairs and Development Planning MEC Anton Bredell said that while the province welcomed the wet weather with open arms, the concern was that the heavy rainfall may lead to localised flooding in some areas. “Some of the other associated risks during bad weather like this also include mudslides and informal settlement fires. “In the Central Karoo region we had a fatality a short while ago following heavy rains in the area. “We want to advise the public to use extreme caution when travelling in the Western Cape or if exposed to the weather over the next few days.”