As a young person, the world is a confusing place. While everything changes, it can be difficult to see what is best for you. Having someone who cares about you, whether they are related to you or not, means that you have a person to turn to when you need advice or support. Mentorship not only makes it easier to define your goals but gives you a way of going about achieving them. Looking up to someone does not mean that you should do everything that they do, rather that their life is an example of how you could live your life. The influence of peer pressure can border on dangerous sometimes. In our communities, where substance abuse and gangsterism is part of our daily reality, the appeal of these things is strong. Many of our peers look up to gangsters because there are not many other role models; along with the status and material things that come with being part of a gang, they are also known to be dangerous and people listen when they speak because they fear them. Fear is power; unfortunately people want power and respect. Without positive mentors, the risk of more and more children buying into gang culture is high, and that is something that we are all responsible for and will have to face later on. Mentorship, be it through Rock Girls, from our parents and families, or through school, has benefited us in a variety of ways. We have been taught how to start setting and achieving goals for ourselves, through workshops and conversations. We have been encouraged to stand up for what we believe in and to use our voices. We have been shown a way of conducting ourselves in a world that is changing faster than we can keep track of. We have been allowed to ask questions and get answers that have shaped how we see the world, ourselves, and one another. We have been reminded that we are not alone, and that our actions have impacts on those around us, whether we know it or not. As a community which is bigger than our suburb, we owe it to ourselves and to one an other to be the kind of people we would like our peers and children to look up to. We have to remember that what we do sets the bar for what is acceptable behaviour. If we want anything to change, and to create an environment in which young people are able to follow their hearts and fulfil their dreams, we must be the kind of people who are willing and able to guide others and advise them when they need it.