The devastated son of murdered Northcliff family members said he would find closure only once the men arrested were given heavy prison sentences for their heinous crimes. He said the six men arrested for the murder of his father, mother and sister – who were found bound, gagged and burnt beyond recognition in Centurion early this week – deserved the worst (sentences) that could be imposed. “A heavy sentence won't bring my parents and sister back, but at least it will make sure that other families won't suffer the same fate. I hope they rot in jail,” said 29-year-old Rizine Naidoo. Their smouldering remains were found in the open veld on Monday morning. Security guards had gone to extinguish a veld fire when they made the horrific discovery. Naidoo said he was particularly shocked that their violent deaths had occurred during the Muslim holy month of Ramadaan. “It’s a time of fasting and sacrifice, and it is at this time when families help each other through this holy period, now I have no one,” said a distraught Naidoo. He is focusing on getting his family’s remains back from the mortuary and “doing what’s right for their souls”, he said. The charred remains are still at the mortuary while police await the results of DNA tests. A breakthrough was made when six people were arrested in Soweto, Olifantsfontein and Ekurhuleni in connection with the kidnapping and murder of Greg‚ 57, Melanie‚ 51‚ and 23-year-old Rakiel Naidoo. They were kidnapped at their home in Northcliff after a robbery on Sunday night. Their Mercedes-Benz was also stolen. Police spokesperson Captain Kay Makhubele said the police had gone all out since the kidnapping came to light. He confirmed that six suspects – one of whom worked for the Naidoo family for 12 years – have been arrested. “We are investigating exactly what kind of work he did for the family and whether he was involved in a dispute with the family,” said Makhubele. The first arrest was made on Wednesday night, which led to the arrest of the other five by yesterday morning, he added. The family’s missing Mercedes-Benz and electrical appliances taken from their home were also recovered. “A Toyota Quantum used as a getaway vehicle and the Mercedes-Benz taken from the house, as well as all electrical appliances, were recovered,” said Makhubele. The six suspects, aged between 25 and 40‚ were expected to appear in the Johannesburg Magistrate’s Court soon. Makhubele said the motive for the murders appeared to be house robbery at this stage.