Wards 24, 52, 95, 96, 98, 99 and 106 want Phosa to become the party’s next president. Phosa delivered the Oliver Tambo memorial lecture ahead of June 16 commemorations and called for a restoration of the former ANC president’s values, morals and ethics. “I agree to stand as a candidate. I did not decide on my own but was nominated,” Phosa told about 200 people at KwaMfundo High in Khayelitsha yesterday. Speaking to the Cape Times, Phosa said he was humbled by his nomination. He said ANC provincial 
executive member, Andile Lili, has been behind the campaign for him to be elected the party’s president. Phosa has been endorsed in the Eastern Cape too. “It’s humbling and pleasing. I appreciate the support. This is the beginning of a journey, a long journey. Our country is wounded and needs healing after Zuma,” Phosa said. To heal and rescue the ANC, the national executive committee should be dissolved, he added. “Our people have lost confidence in the ANC. The scandals are higher than Mount Kilimanjaro. To build the ANC, we must go back to the branches and unite them,” Phosa said. “Empty promises of quality sanitation, housing, electricity, employment, clinics and social workers leave the people imprisoned in a state of poverty and shackled to a life of challenges, while government leaders spend millions on lining their own pockets; they forget the cries of the people.” His vision for South Africa is to “rebuild our country by putting the needs of the people first and standing in solidarity across all racial and political divides”. Phosa asked: “Why spend so many billions on arms deals when we have no wars, on corrupt bonuses, on legal fees to defend criminal leaders? “Where does that leave the budget to spend on education and university fees, housing, health and job creation? ‘‘The theft of South Africa’s resources and prosperity is wrong and must come to an end. We must redirect our spending and energy to the people and projects that need it the most.’’  Lili told the crowd in Khayelitsha that the ANC needs credible leaders. “People are sick and tired of ‘Zumania’. If you want the ANC to lose in 2019, then you must vote for Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma. “Comrade Cyril (Ramaphosa) and Nkosazana must not stand for election, for the sake of the ANC,” he said. “We are making no apologies when we say Comrade Mathews Phosa should become the next ANC president. You must not think Cyril is an option, Comrade Phosa is an option.” ANC’s Ward 98 chairperson Ludwe Silwana added: “There is no other leader who will unite the ANC other than Mathews Phosa.”