Abraham Wilson appeared in court on Monday in connection with the murder of well-known Cape Flats gospel singer Wilton Fredericks, 31. Wilton and two friends, Martin Andrews and Carl Arries, were gunned down in a drive-by shooting on Saturday afternoon in Nooitgedacht, Bishop Lavis. Police confirmed that Wilson was arrested a few hours later. Bishop Lavis police communications officer, Constable Samantha Adonis, says: “The suspect is Abraham Wilson, 37 years old.” Wilson, an alleged 28s gang leader, who regularly attended his son Cameron’s High Court trial, was picked up on Saturday evening following a tip-off by community members who said they were tired of being held hostage by the ever-increasing gang violence, taking the lives of their young men. Abraham, from Heinz Park, appeared in the Bishop Lavis Magistrates’ Court on Monday on three charges of murder and one of attempted murder. Wilton and his friends were standing next to a white Chevrolet bakkie in Ferel Street on Saturday at about 3pm when two vehicles drove past and the occupants opened fire on them. Wilton is the son of Cape Flats gospel singers, Pastor Wilmot Fredericks and his wife Dolly. According to a witness, the gunmen were from Valhalla Park, but this could not be confirmed by police. Abraham is currently being held at the police cells in Bishop Lavis and his next court date is yet to be confirmed by the National Prosecuting Authority. Cameron is currently on trial at the Western Cape High Court on 15 charges including six counts of murder, rape, attempted murder and assault with the intent to do grievous bodily harm. He is accused of murdering teenager Lekita Moore from Valhalla Park in September 2016. Lekita was stabbed 98 times, and her breasts and vagina slashed. Cameron claims it was his friend Xavier Bester who killed the teen. Xavier was found murdered hours after Lekita’s body was discovered on the same field. Cameron is being held in the hospital section of Goodwood prison for his own safety, after he was apparently receiving threats in jail. Judge Chantal Fortuin will deliver her verdict on 28 June.