Haunted by what he described as his “worst nightmare” of his child trying to free herself from being tied up, 25-year-old Siyabonga Bomela had joined residents in a desperate search. The Grade R pupil at ACJ Phakade Primary School in Nomzamo, Strand, went missing while playing with friends outside her grandmother’s house on Saturday. Her mutilated body was found under a bridge in Broadway Soak Street about 1km  from her home. The family fears she may have been raped. She also sustained head injuries and bruises around her body. The family suspect she may have been dragged before being dumped under the bridge. Yesterday, the heartbroken Bomela detailed the grim discovery of his daughter who he said was found by young boys who were playing soccer. “They (boys) first called my mother because her number was in the flyers we had been distributing. She then told me because she was not sure which bridge it was because there are two. We then split into two groups. “The other (group) went to that second bridge. Me and my friend came here running, hoping we would still find her alive  As I was approaching, he went under the bridge and came back crying. As I got closer, I could see, I know my daughter. It was her,” said Bomela. He could not go back to report the news to his family as he feared it would destroy Minentle’s grandmother. “Since her disappearance on Saturday, we searched for her until Sunday morning, I am not sure whether I was dreaming or what was happening, but I just had a feeling that my child was tied and was trying to free herself,” he said. Minentle was the fourth child found murdered in a month in Cape Town as the country continues to grapple with violence against women and children. The child’s aunt Puseletso Lekhatha said Minentle died in pain. She had been lying face down when the family arrived at  the scene. The family yesterday confirmed that the child’s eyes had not been gouged out. The police have yet to arrest anyone for the child’s murder. Meanwhile, a Cape Times reader and Somerset West resident, who was touched by Minentle’s story, has offered to contribute or pay for the child’s funeral. “I read your article this morning  The usual comment is  ‘I can’t imagine what the parents are going through’. Sadly I do, as my parents buried three children and my father carried the three white coffins into the church,” the reader wrote.