The family vanished from their Northcliff house on Sunday night, with relatives arriving at the home the following morning only to discover it had been ransacked and left with a significant amount of blood inside. On the same day, three charred bodies were discovered in a stretch of veld in Centurion – but it took three days for police to announce that the cases were linked. This despite relatives identifying the trio on Tuesday night, apparently by checking the remains of clothing and body parts. While six men, including one of the family’s former employees, were arrested for kidnapping and robbery, spokesperson Captain Kay Makhubele said the police would only be able to charge the men with murder once DNA tests conclusively proving the identities of the bodies were returned. He told The Saturday Star that he knew of no other avenues that needed to be explored. However, Rudolph Zinn, Unisa professor in the Department of Police Practice, said the way the bodies were disposed of likely indicates a more elaborate motive. Zinn, who spent years conducting interviews with housebreakers, hijackers and robbers for his research, said it was only a small percentage of house robberies that ended in such a brutal manner. The expressive violence against the victims usually points to an additional motive behind the crime, according to Zinn. “It could either be an act of revenge, or to send a message,” he said. Zinn also said that if the point of burning the bodies was to possibly get rid of evidence, it was odd that they had not set alight to the crime scene. The professor was unsurprised by allegations that a former employee of the family had been involved, as in 77% of his interviews with such criminals an insider was part of the job. However, he said it was highly uncommon for someone, or even multiple people, to be kidnapped after a house robbery, though it was more common during hijackings. Crime and justice programme senior researcher at the Institute For Security Studies, Johan Burger, also said that the police needed to be wary of a possibly more complex motive besides robbery. He said that from a criminal’s perspective there is little to gain from kidnapping a family directly after a house robbery. “It’s very seldom that victims are seriously harmed. This is an exceptional case possibly a revenge crime,” he said. According to Burger, over the past four years, house robbery statistics have seen an increase of 24% and the SAPS needs to focus on their crime intelligence to bring down the syndicates responsible for such crimes. On Friday afternoon, Makhubele was unable to say when the DNA testing on the Centurion bodies would be completed, though he did confirm the post-mortems were complete. He said the bodies would only be released to relatives of the family once the results were finalised. However, the inability of the police to release the bodies has prevented grieving relatives from finalising plans for the three funerals. On Friday, Fuad Patel, a relative of the Naidoos, referred queries about the funeral to another relative, but did say the plans were still up in the air. Family spokesman and Gregory’s son, Rezine, also confirmed the family was still in the dark regarding funeral or memorial arrangements. He added that the family was not prepared to release information around the investigation at this point. The Naidoo family has seen more than their fair share of tragedy over the past few years, with Rakiel’s brother dying in recent months, and her father passing away after a battle with cancer earlier this year. The 38-year-old former employee, who had worked for the Naidoos for 12 years, and his five alleged accomplices, are set to appear at the Johannesburg Magistrate’s Court on Monday. Saturday Star