The provincial government s standing committee on economic opportunities, tourism and agriculture will conduct urgent oversight visits to the Philippi horticultural area (PHA) to understand the uniquely fertile and valuable land threatened by potential development. They will also be holding a public hearing to include the concerns of neighbouring communities in their decision-making process. This follows the provincial department of agriculture briefing the committee on their plan to conduct their first study on the PHA to understand the land, and inform steps to protect it.The department and City, however, came under fire for a lack of effort to conserve it.The PHA is 3000ha of farmland in the heart of the Cape Flats, and opponents of the developments say these will threaten the livelihoods of emerging farmers and their workers and local food security, and seriously jeopardise a 630km&sup2; aquifer. The farmers supply the City with over 200000 tons of vegetables yearly. Two large developments have been in the works for the land, with widespread opposition to a 472.36ha planned housing development, Oakland City.Committee chairperson Beverley Sch&auml;fer yesterday said she would be meeting with Economic Opportunities, Tourism and Agriculture MEC Alan Winde, and Environmental Affairs and Development Planning MEC Anton Bredell to discuss the way forward. I m extremely concerned that there is no protection of the area now. The more you leave this open every day is another day that we are losing a whole lot of valuable land, and I think the encroachment has to stop now. Susanna Coleman of the PHA Food and Farming Campaign made an impassioned plea, informing what seemed shocked members of the proposed development about years of activism to protect it. She said requests for officials to visit the site and see its potential fell on deaf ears. The developments proposed for the PHA fall squarely on top of the primary recharge zone of the Cape Flats aquifier. Eventually, this would dry up the aquifier, destroy the most productive horticultural area in the country, and delete any chance of it supplying up to a third of the city s potable water, Coleman said. She said the campaign would take the matter to court in September to challenge a 30000-house Oaklands City development rezone approved by the City. Agricultural Development and Support Services deputy director-general Darryl Jacobs said the study would be completed in six months, with input from all stakeholders. The PHA for us is very straightforward. We are focused on understanding what is the agricultural footprint in the PHA. The stance from our department is to protect the agriculture within this province and grow it as far as possible. The ANC s Siyazi Tyatyam said: Now we know how drought dealt with us, and we are told this is not yet over. My worry is that here we are unable to understand the extent of the aquifer. Steps must be taken to protect the area. City representative Kier Hennessy said encroachment had steadily taken place, with what was once 5000ha of land, decreasing to about 3000ha, with farming production increasing on land that is decreasing.