A father-of-three was killed by gangsters shortly after dropping off his little girl at cr&egrave;che.Brent Kruger, 32, was in his car when he was caught in crossfire in Atlantis on Wednesday morning. Police have arrested four teenage suspects in connection with the shooting.Brent s wife, Renei Kruger, 32, was inconsolable when the Daily Voice spoke to her yesterday. The couple would have celebrated their 12th wedding anniversary on Sunday.Renei says Brent was the perfect husband and most wonderful father in the world . Brent was on his way home after he dropped our daughter off at cr&egrave;che when the incident happened, she explains. He was an amazing person, loving, caring, everything that was good in the world was Brent. This Sunday we would have celebrated our 12th wedding anniversary.&quot;The dad was struck by a stray bullet as rival skollies shot at each other.The silver Chevrolet he was driving then crashed through a vibracrete wall in Ardeness Street in Robinvale.The area is close to the infamous Dura flats, a known gang hotspot.Police have arrested four teenagers, aged between 15 and 18, for the shooting.Police spokesperson, Captain FC van Wyk, confirms: Circumstances surrounding a shooting incident at about 8.30am [on Wednesday] in Ardeness Street, Robinvale in Atlantis, where a 32-year-old man was fatally wounded are under investigation. Four suspects age between 15 and 18 were arrested. A murder case was opened for investigation.&quot; They are due to appear in the Atlantis Magistrates' Court once charged. DA ward councillor and community activist, Barbara Rass, says she is shocked by yet another senseless killing in Atlantis.She also expresses anger over the fact that Brent s body lay for hours at the scene before police forensic investigators arrived. Another senseless killing, another innocent person. This has to stop, says Rass. The incident occurred early the morning and his body was still on the scene seven hours later waiting for the forensics personnel to come. This is a big problem, why does this body have to lie here this long? Earlier this month, the bodies of mom Octavia Skippers, 23, and her two-year-old daughter Cleo, were found in the bushes between the Protea Park and Witsand informal settlements.The mother and daughter were found with their heads buried in the sand.Octavia s close friend, Wilfred Oliphant, 35, was arrested for the murders.He is back in the Atlantis Magistrate's Court on 14 July. Daily Voice