Heavy rain has been forecast throughout the day. The storm could bring as much as 50mm of rain within 24 hours, providing some relief from a drought that has seen dam levels plummet to below 20%. Spokesperson for environmental affairs and development planning James-Brent Styan said the provincial Disaster Management Centre was alerted to “adverse weather conditions” which were expected across large parts of the Western Cape from yesterday evening, continuing into tomorrow. The head of the Western Cape Education Department Brian Schreuder ordered schools to close today, saying: “After extensive consultation with all role players, I have taken the unprecedented decision, in the interest of learner and educator safety, to close schools in the province (today). “Our primary concern is the safety of learners and staff. The storm may damage some schools, which could place learners and staff at risk, as well as those who commute to school, especially in rural areas.” School Governing Body Association executive officer for the Western Cape Malcolm Venter said the decision by Schreuder was a strategic one. “It is a matter of weighing up the one thing against the other. Do you consider if there are parents home to take care of the children or send your child into danger where possible flooding and school property damage could take place?” Venter asked. Asked whether companies advised employees to stay home, Cape Chamber of Commerce president Janine Myburgh said: “At this stage the only thing we can say is that businesses will be determined to carry on as close to normally as possible. It will be a stay-at-home day for many so retail stores will be quiet and so will restaurants.” The University of Cape Town confirmed it would be closed today. Stellenbosch University and Cape Peninsula University of Technology also confirmed they had suspended all exams for today. The University of the Western Cape will be closed. The Airports Company South Africa said it had put a number of plans in place ahead of the storm. It had warned that in the event of flight delays at one airport there could be a knock-on effect at other airports across the country. Passengers are advised to stay in touch with their airlines for updates on possible delays and rescheduled flights. No flights have been cancelled yet. Risk Benefit Solutions legal adviser Johannes du Plessis said with the major storm on the way, property owners need to be aware that they are potentially exposed to additional liability as a result of flood damages on neighbouring properties. “If stormwater runoff from an individual’s property causes damage to a neighbour’s, it can be argued that this was due to negligence.”Mayoral committee member for safety and security and social services JP Smith said the city would also make available emergency shelter and associated humanitarian relief  in the event that people are displaced as a result of the frontal system. The city issued the following tips to residents which can reduce their flood risk: Make sure that drainage pipes on your property are not blocked Make sure that the stormwater gutters around your property are free from debris. Check for dead or burnt trees that have the potential of falling onto your property and causing damage. Place sandbags where necessary to protect critical areas. In informal settlements, raise the floor level of your home to be higher than the land outside. Residents should dial 021 480 7700 from a cellphone or 107 from a landline in case of an emergency. Officials are on standby 24/7.  chevon.booysen@inl.co.za 