Cape Town - The City says it will be difficult to secure enough funds to repair the Joe Slovo community hall which was &nbsp;severely damaged during a violent protest on Monday night. It is unclear when it will be possible to repair this facility as it is the end of the financial year and the budget for next year has already been allocated. Due to the extensive nature of the damage, it will be very difficult to secure enough funds to repair this facility in the coming year, the City said in a statement on Tuesday morning. This came a day after angry residents went on rampage, torching a MyCiti bus travel. The violence broke out after the City's anti-land invasion unit demolished about 20 structures the residents erected on a piece of land. Safety and Security Mayco member JP Smith said: This is particularly hard to swallow when just yesterday the Department of Recreation and Parks finished extensive repairs to all ceilings boards and doors in this facility after years of motivating for the funding for these repairs. He said no room within this facility was spared in this act of violence. The main hall and kitchen have both sustained substantial fire damage. Even the storeroom of the facility was burnt down, along with all of the recreation equipment stored within it, said &nbsp;Smith. Area Head, Sarel van Deventer said: Just last week this hall was humming with children at a series of Youth Day programmes and we had weeks of holiday programmes planned for winter. Now I have had to remove my staff from the facility. I can t describe how discouraging this is for us as recreation staff, as we have spent years transforming this hall into one that the community can be proud of, where in any given week almost 2500 children and youth visit the centre for recreation programmes. Regular programmes at the facility include aerobics, basketball, drama, cr&egrave;che programmes. The centre also had a very popular gym. The nearest community halls are the Summer Greens and Milnerton Hall and the City s Recreation and Parks department will accommodate users of the Joe Slovo hall at these centres.