Cape Town – An item of clothing found at the scene where the mutilated body of Sinoxolo Mafevuka, 19, was found has been identified as that of the accused. A photo showing a blue jersey with stitching on the side and a white label was shown as an exhibit in the Western Cape High Court on Thursday. It was identified by State witness, Andiswa Baba, who said it belonged to one of the murder accused Athabile Mafilika. Baba said the jersey was worn by Mafilika the night before Mafevuka’s body was found in the communal toilets at the SST Block, in Khayelitsha. She also recalled seeing him wearing it with a pair of jeans on the day he had been working at a container, situated about 160m from the communal toilets and on another occasion where he had worn it with white shorts. Baba is a community leader and a neighbour of the accused cousins, Athabile and Xolisa Mafilika. She said not a week goes by without one of the two cousins wearing the jersey. Defence Advocate Shaid Bruinders for Athabile said his client denied owning the item of clothing. "Athabile says he doesn’t have a jersey as depicted here. He doesn’t know it,” said Bruinders. To which Baba said: “It is his jersey. He lives in my area, he passes by wearing it. But if he denies this jersey then it is his problem.” Bruinders said Athabile also denies owning a pair of white shorts. Baba said as part of her community work she had seen the two accused not only assist her with unloading cement from the delivery truck to a container, but on social grant payment days they usually sat at the side of the nearby garage pushing groceries for Metro supermarket customers. “Athabile denies pushing trolleys at Metro he says its his cousin,” said Bruinders. “I know his cousin," Baba responded. "The cousin works inside the store. Athabile hangs around near the garage, close to the container. He is lying." The defence advocate also brought up discrepancies in her initial statement to the police. In the statement Baba spoke of a grey jersey with black stripes. However, her evidence in chief mentioned a blue jersey. Baba said she made it clear to the court that she was not good with colours, but was adamant that the jersey found at the scene belonged to Athabile. “I am not mistaken, I know what I am talking about. If accused two says it’s not his then I don’t know,” Baba. Mafevuka’s body was discovered in March, 2016. The matter continues on Friday.  zodidi.dano@inl.co.za 