Raging fires, which swept through at least 20 Knysna suburbs, have killed five people in the area, including a 3-year-old and his pregnant mother. About 10 000 residents have been displaced, and about 300 structures have been totally destroyed, causing damage amounting to millions of rand. The bodies of 3-year-old Michael Johnston and his parents Tony and Madré were discovered outside their house on the farm Kalanderkloof in the Elandskraal area on Wednesday. They are believed to have been overcome by smoke, according to police. The 3-year-old had been celebrating his birthday, while his mother was eight months' pregnant. An elderly man from the Brenton area suffered a heart attack, while a 4-year-old girl from Welbedacht was found dead in a burnt-out building by her father. Late yesterday officials said the fires were still not under control. Humanitarian support flooded into the coastal town on Wednesday night and throughout the day yesterday, bringing much-needed relief to thousands of people. The Oudtshoorn Municipality has teamed up with the Infantry School of the SA National Defence Force to help extinguish fires. Oudtshoorn mayor Colan Sylvester said: “We would be glad if our citizens can also extend their hand and donate food and any other needs to Knysna – our neighbours are in desperate need of our support.” In Cape Town, donations of non-perishable food, water, clothing, blankets and toiletries can be dropped off at the Goodwood Fire Station, Strand Fire Station, Roeland Street Fire Station and Fish Hoek Fire Station.   “As the home of the Pink Loerie, the LGBTQ+ community is heartbroken about what is happening in our favourite town. "We want to show that Knysna means more to us than just a place to have fun and parade every year. The people of Knysna need assistance with food, water, shelter, electricity, generators, blankets, clothes etc. Anything you can spare,” the organisation said in a statement. Donations can be dropped off at the Knysna Fire Department, Waterfront Drive, Knysna or at Metelerkamps, 3 Union Street, Waterfront Drive, Knysna. The SA National Zakah Fund has also sent teams to the area to assist. The organisation’s Garden Route branch, in conjunction with the Masjid Dur Rahmah in George, has set up a collection point at the masjid. To find out how you can assist in the area, call 044 871 4735. The NSPCA’s disaster teams from Alberton, Gauteng were sent yesterday to assist animals affected by the fire. “The aftermath of such devastating fires leaves a trail of destruction. Displaced animals need food and water. Severely injured animals need assistance. Animals suffering from burns require veterinary assistance and may need to beeuthanased to end their suffering if this is extreme and there is no hope of survival,” the organisation said in a statement. Displaced or injured animals can be reported to the Garden Route SPCA on 0448781990/1993 or to the National Council of SPCAs on 0119073590. The humanitarian organisation Gift of the Givers’ truck carrying bottled water for Cape Town was rerouted to Knysna.  The Shoprite Group has donated goods, and customers wanting to help can do so by donating non-perishable foods, water and blankets at any Shoprite and Checkers store in the Southern Western Districts and Garden Route; and making a donation towards the #ActForChange Fund at a till point. Pick * Pay has donated R100 000 to assist affected communities in Knysna. Donations can be placed in specially marked trolleys at all Western Cape stores, and at some Garden Route stores. The causes of the fires are still unknown. Oaklands School and the provincial hospital also sustained significant damage, as well as the Montessori school. Estimates by authorities yesterday showed severe devastation to several suburbs, including Brenton-on-Lake, Nania, Eastford, Fisherhaven, Brakenhill and White Location. James-Brent Styan, spokesperson for Local Government MEC Anton Bredell, said communication networks in Knysna and surrounds remained faulty yesterday, and the public was urged to verify information they receive on social media.  