Let me state upfront that I have never voted for the DA. Let me also state that I am a black man. Let me also state that I have always seen Helen and I have told her this when I visited her office in Wale Street, Cape Town: that she is a damn good administrator, upright and that is what South Africa needs at the moment. I have also told her this: that I admire her fiscal discipline in a country where even a councillor from a no-name municipality could splash taxpayers’ money with gay abandon, she has minimised her personal be-spectacled and black-suited men following her around. I have also stated this to everyone who cares to listen: that Helen is the ONLY high-ranking government official who would respond to an email from the public – in a country where a mayor from a no-name municipality is obsessed with his/her own importance. Helen has never purported that she will solve your problems, but she has always had an ear to listen. I have been to her office when I was subjected to the most dastardly racism in my street just because I was black. It is with the above in mind that I am really saddened that Helen has taken this scorched earth stance to the detriment of herself, her party and South Africa. Steven Tshwete’s son, Lindela Tshwete endured so much pain when he was faced with a barrage of criticism for joining the DA. There are many like him who continue to suffer this ignominy because of associating themselves with the DA, yet they are standing steadfast in their convictions. It is with this in mind that I am lost for words in trying to describe what Helen Zille is doing. Does she place so much premium on her white skin, like Steve Hofmeyr? What is she trying to prove? Why fight with Mmusi in public? Helen has never been RACIST. But, does she feel okay feeding into the stereotype that says Mmusi is under her thumb? Does she enjoy the accolades from bigoted extremists? Is it worth her time to pile these at home and hang them in her sitting room, knowing the history of South Africa? With the storms ravaging the Cape and blacks in general feeling the pain of being have-nots, does she feel she can go on and praise colonialism and destroy her legacy. And, destroy the contribution towards non-racial South Africa? Pondering on all of this, I am forced to ask: what is in it for you Helen? On the surface and also looking deeper, it sounds like she is fighting some proxy war. I refuse to believe that it is about your principles or anything. Tell South Africa what this is about, please. K Maphosa Kuils River