This after eight train carriages were destroyed by arsonists on Monday and resulting in scores of commuters stranded due to train delays and cancellations during yesterday morning’s peak hours. Platforms 15 and 16 at Cape Town Station were closed  to allow engineers to assess the infrastructural integrity, and until an assessment of the losses is done. The arson attack on Monday night followed frustrated Metrorail commuters who went on the rampage, damaging and looting shops at the station, as trains on its Central, Northern, Cape Flats and Southern lines were delayed by 30 to 40 minutes. Police were called to maintain order. Chamber president Janine Myburgh said businesses had also fallen victim, as employees arrived late at work, which resulted in a loss of productivity, and stressed staff. “One cannot forgive the torching of trains which is totally unacceptable, it only makes the situation worse. One can, however, understand the anger and frustration of commuters, torching the trains is in no way the solution though,” Myburgh said. Metrorail spokesperson Riana Scott had said the delays were a result of electrical power feed problems. It usually has four 11kV power feeds available to it to operate the train service, but between 2pm and 8pm on Monday, only two were working. Metrorail regional manager Richard Walker yesterday apologised to affected commuters, and condemned the destruction of property. He said surveillance footage would be studied with the intention to open malicious damage to property cases with the police. “Commuters are bearing the brunt of last (Monday) night’s thuggery and Metrorail’s already reduced capacity would be further depleted.This incident sets Prasa Rail Accelerated Service Improvement Plans back significantly and innocent commuters would suffer most as a result. Commuters should note platform changes which will result in delays as trains scheduled to use platforms 15 and 16 will have to be accommodated at alternative platforms,” Walker said. Parliament’s portfolio committee on transport visited the station yesterday, and acting chairperson Leonard Ramatlakane, called on communities and commuters to expose criminals who torch trains. He said the cost of repairs would run into millions, and Metrorail has been invited to brief the committee on the incident once the investigation is complete. “These people should be arrested. Commuters must flush out the criminals. “They must not act under the guise of being commuters. This is no ordinary crime. “It is clear it was carried out by people who understand the system...Burning trains is not a solution. 
“Instead it exacerbates the transport challenges that our people encounter. This is the only thing we have to move people to work. We must find a permanent solution to this challenge,” Ramatlakane said.