Nokhaya Mngakana, 60,  Samkelo Mngakana, 37, his cousin Lukhetho Booi, 27, and Aphiwe Magqaza, 29, were all brutally shot execution-style in Delft and Gugulethu. At 2am on Saturday, suspects jumped over a locked gate and kicked down the door of a backyard shack behind the family's Gash Street home in search of the 37-year-old Mngakana. The mechanic was not at home at the time, “He was in KTC, Gugulethu, to fix a friend’s car,” his uncle Headman Siyikili said. The family could only confirm seeing two suspects but they say they heard more voices. Mngakana’s older sister, Zoleka Magqaza, said: “They kicked down the door of the backyard room next to mine. “When I heard them beating my son and my cousin, I came out of my room. “There was a bald man standing with a gun in his hand. I asked him what’s going on, he said ‘don’t worry we are the police’.” She peeped into the room, where she saw her son and cousin being beaten with a gun. “They kept asking ‘where is Tswi, we want Tswi’ (Mngakana’s nickname). “After one of the boys gave the address, the man outside said, ‘now you can shoot them in the head’.” At this point the mother-of-two ran inside her room, took her 12-year-old daughter and lay flat on the ground. “I was scared for my life. I heard a few shots, then I peeped and saw them pass. They moved to the front house.” Her brother, Vusumzi Mngakana, who was in the main house at the time, said: “My mother just opened the door, she did not open the gate, then they shot her in the head, in front of four grandchildren.” The men then sped off in an unknown white vehicle. Shortly after the incident, the family heard that Samkelo, a father of one, had also been shot and killed in KTC, Gugulethu. The family said they were traumatised and desperately needed counselling. “We are deeply hurt. How was my mother involved, why did they have to take so many lives like this, it is uncalled for. “We will never find closure until we know someone is arrested,” said Mngakana’s son Lulama Magqaza. The family were concerned about the burial costs, “Nobody had any funeral cover. We do not know how we are going to do this,” Magqaza said. Police spokesperson Andre Traut said: “The suspects fled the scene and are yet to be arrested. They left behind a vehicle which was hijacked in the Delft area last month. "Any person with information is kindly requested to contact Crime Stop on 0860010111.”