For nearly a year now, motorists have had to put up with lane closures and major traffic jams on both the in-and-out bound N1 highway, but it's the in-bound afternoon traffic, which with a little effort can surely be avoided. I have no idea what cost this has added to motorists pockets so far and to wear and tear on their vehicles, but it must be considerable. We sit in this traffic, day after day and accept what is dished out to us, because that's what we do. How this situation is allowed to continue is beyond me. I can understand why Martin & East, who are doing the roadworks, have no interest in alleviating this problem, but why do the authorities sit back and let it happen. In fact how proactive are they when roadworks take place in our city? If you crawl past that section in peak hour traffic at 5pm there are never more than a handful of people milling around. In fact it looks like only a handful of workers are employed on this project at any one time. Surely the authorities can exert a bit of pressure on them to treat the daily snarl-ups as a top priority and make changes to assist the flow of traffic. There is a truck, which delivers cement between 4 and 5 o'clock in the evening; why can't this sort of task be done in the evenings? In fact, why can't the majority of this project from now on be done at night and all barriers removed during peak times. Telling us it will add to the costs of the construction is a poor excuse; they would complete the work in half the time if they were forced to spend more money. I have seen days when they send one worker on a casual stroll down the N1 to remove barriers, but even this poor effort is normally done well past 5pm and does nothing to alleviate the traffic. Martin & East will continue to block lanes unless someone with authority forces them to do otherwise. Due to the pace they have worked so far on this highway, they are going to be busy for years. Something must be done now to get them to be proactive and remove barriers well before peak hour traffic. To date they have shown very little consideration for the rest of us, so someone out there who can, please take some action. Unnecessary blocking of roads by construction companies, whenever it suits them, is a worldwide problem, to such an extent some cities now make them hire that part of the road when they block it off. This has resulted in a considerable reduction in the time roadworks take place… perhaps it's a system we should implement here. Stuart Shepherd Edgemead