Sentencing procedures continued in the Western Cape High Court yesterday against the man who attempted to poison his mother before hacking her to death with a spade and crowbar Pieter le Roux pleaded guilty to trying to kill his mother, Francina van der Merwe, in July 2016 by giving her ant poison. When that did not work, he hit her with a spade and a crowbar and dragged her behind a motor vehicle. She died the next day as a result of a head injury and severe blood loss.In a plea, Le Roux painted a picture of a strained mother-son relationship with verbal, physical and emotional abuse. He said he and his 55-year-old mother lived alone in a house in Skoolkop, Riversdal, and he was taken out of school at a young age. I did not go back to school and was very sad about this because I wanted to finish matric. I have learning problems and am mildly mentally challenged but am able to differentiate between right and wrong, he said. A psychologist was expected to give evidence today. Early in July 2016 I tried to poison the deceased with ant poison. I was looking for ant poison and asked a few people in the area. &quot;One night in early July 2016 I made coffee for myself and also for the deceased. I added the ant poison to her coffee... because I wanted to kill her. She drank half of the cup of coffee and said it tasted bitter. She did not feel well and went to bed. The next morning she drank the other half &quot;After I tried to kill my mother I told my female friend, Sodia Wewers, Le Roux said.About three weeks later he visited his girlfriend, who his mother apparently disliked because of her race, he said. When I got home the deceased started fighting with me because I had a coloured girlfriend. I did not want to fight and watched television I saw that she was sleeping and went outside to get a spade. &quot;I was not under the influence of any drugs or alcohol and had sound and sober senses When I stood next to her I wanted to restrain myself but I decided to proceed and hit the deceased over the head while she was sleeping.&nbsp;&quot;She woke up and asked me: 'Wat maak jy?' (what are you doing) I then stabbed her various times with the crowbar at the back of her neck and dragged her outside.&quot;