Victory for a Syrian refugee was short-lived after the Department of Home Affairs failed to comply with a court order that allowed his release from the Lindela Repatriation Centre. Lawyers for Human Rights (LHR) had successfully fought for the release of the refugee, who they said had been detained on the basis of a fraudulent asylum permit since late May. The lawyers charged that the detention of their client at the centre was wrong in both substance and procedure, as he had not been charged with any crime, or been allowed to exercise his right to habeas corpus. LHR candidate attorney Kimani Ndungu said their client was arrested on May 26 and officials were in the process of deporting him back to Syria when LHR intervened. Judge Neil Tuchten said that sending someone to Syria at this time was a statistical death warrant . The judge ruled that he be released immediately and permitted to apply for refugee status and that he may not be deported.Reports have estimated over 400&nbsp;000 deaths in Syria, in an ongoing war. Up to now and despite being served with the court order, Home Affairs has not released him from Lindela, said Ndungu. Ndungu said they viewed this matter in a serious light and intended on initiating contempt proceedings against the Department of Home Affairs. The refusal to comply with the court order amounts to the offence of contempt of court. Just two days ago, LHR celebrated as they won the judgment fighting for the freedom of their client. Department of Home Affairs spokesperson David Hlabane said the man was detained after he presented himself at the Desmond Tutu Refugee Reception Office in Pretoria to extend a fraudulently obtained asylum seeker temporary permit. At no stage did he indicate a desire to apply for asylum. As there is no third country to which he could be deported, his deportation back to his country of nationality, as is required under Section 32 of the Immigration Act, was commenced with. We have in place standard operating procedures to be followed at Lindela for releasing detainees, including release on receiving a court order and authorisation for such release. &nbsp; [email&#160;protected]