A Cape Flats schoolboy has been killed and six other youngsters injured when bullets flew at an illegal car spinning event.  The 16-year-old Hillview boy was gunned down on Sunday evening in the parking lot of a mall in Eerste River. Police say six bystanders, aged between 11 and 27, were injured and taken to hospital for treatment. The incident occurred at about 6pm at the Shoprite centre — its rear parking lot has become a popular hang out spot on Sunday afternoons as drag-racers and spinners doing donuts show off their “talents” with their cars. The suspects are still at large. According to friends, Keagan Overmeyer, a Grade 9 learner at Forest Heights High School, was a good boy and had still gone to Youth Day on Friday evening at church. * This video contains graphic violence and strong language. Viewer discretion is advised.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. On Sunday, he went to watch the “car show” like everyone else in his neighbourhood. His 15-year-old friend, who asked not to be named, says the shots “came from out of nowhere”. “It was so sudden. One moment he was standing there and the next he was lying down. I just screamed as shots were fired and people started running. I have never been more afraid in my life,” says the friend. Residents say Metro police and traffic officials regularly come to disperse the illegal gatherings. A low-res 30-second video clip of the incident shows a packed parking lot full of cars and people. As one car slat a donut on the pitch, gunshots suddenly ring out and people start running for cover. The video also shows the bodies of people hit by bullets lying on the ground.  According to neighbours, Keagan’s mom Anthea Overmeyer has been inconsolable and the family is too traumatised to speak to the media. Police spokesperson Sergeant Noloyiso Rwexana says cases of murder and attempted murder are being investigated. “A 16-year-old male was shot and fatally wounded. Six other victims aged between 11 and 27 years were taken to hospital for treatment. “Cases of murder and attempted are under investigation. No one has been arrested at this stage.” Anyone with information is requested to contact Crime Stop on 08600 10111. Daily Voice