Stellenbosch University (SU) has received a R194.6 million donation one of its largest individual donations ever at the bequest of the late Dirk Ackermann, an engineer. As Ackermann requested, the money will be used to establish the DW Ackermann Bursary Fund. University vice-chancellor Wim de Villiers said: It is the definitely one of the most significant donations the University has ever received from one individual to date. We are very grateful and most appreciative of this bequest from Mr Ackermann, De Villiers said. Ackermann bequeathed R8.4 million to the university in a share portfolio in 2006. Hugo Steyn of SU s development and alumni relations division said the value of the shares had since grown to R194.6 million. Total donations to SU in 2016 were up 53% from 2015 and exceeded donations received in 2014.&nbsp; De Villiers said: The assumption that all SU students are from affluent backgrounds is incorrect. More than a third of our most recent graduates received some form of financial assistance during their studies. And it is fascinating to see how this has changed over time.&nbsp; &quot;In 2000, 28% of Maties received some form of financial assistance. By 2014, this was up to 38% of our students. And last year, 41% of our students were from the so-called 'missing middle' (households with a combined income of R600 000 or less per annum). &nbsp; At the start of the year SU received R1.1 million in philanthropic donations, specifically earmarked for addressing financial need among students.&nbsp; Last year SU set three new records in awarding 8 348 qualifications which is 5.6% more than the previous year.&nbsp; These include 1 468 Master's degrees the most ever awarded by SU 278 doctoral degrees, of which 47% went to black, coloured, Indian and Asian candidates. This confirms SU s valuable contribution as a national asset and it sends a strong signal to potential donors interested in continued student success, and a desire to see a consistent output of graduates for the economy.&nbsp; &quot;Recent research also pointed out that we have done well in retaining donors and increasing the amount of money they are giving us, said De Villiers.