Masiphumelele residents and community activists have been left fuming by Premier Helen Zille and mayor Patricia de Lille s no-show at a walkabout in the township with Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane on Friday. Mkhwebane s office said the public protector had subpoenaed both Zille and De Lille to be present at her walkabout to inspect living conditions in Masiphumelele. Mkhwebane s spokesperson Cleopatra Mosana said the public protector has been conducting an investigation into the allegations of maladministration, undue delay and improper conduct by the City. Her office had received a complaint about the unhygienic conditions in Masiphumelele. It becomes a cause for concern when those elected into public office do not respond expeditiously to issues raised with them or do not adhere to the rules of institutions that strengthen our constitutional democracy. Citizens have a right to expect government to deliver basic services to them and they hold their leaders accountable, she said.Mosana said the the subpoena was sent via e-mail and also delivered by the Sheriff.Activist Rosemary Milbank said it was disappointing that De Lille and Zille did not show up. It is extremely frustrating because it proves to us that they don t care. If they had come they would have seen for themselves exactly what it is that we are complaining about. It shows how determined they are to deny the situation and to not remedy it. They are wasting time arguing with the public protector whether they have been subpoenaed the correct way or not instead of getting out here and seeing what we are complaining about, she said. Community leader Dumisani Nhlapo said that among other issues he wanted to ask them what the government s plans were for the residents living in Masiphumelele wetlands.De Lille s spokesperson Zara Nicholson said no subpoena was directly served on De Lille and the procedure followed was incorrect in accordance with the law.Zille s spokesperson Michael Mpofu said it was incorrect to say that a subpoena was served.