If you are someone who clutches at straws, whose mantras in life often start with IF, then South Africa can remain in the Champions Trophy – even IF they lose to India on Sunday. David Miller declared Sunday's match a quarter-final now, but bear with me. The eternal mathematical optimists insist that it ain’t so. The first IF wasn’t so iffy at the start of the tournament – India to beat Sri Lanka at The Oval, and thus sit pretty atop the table. However, chuck in the very real prospect of rain at most matches, and that IF gets rather complicated. But, IF there is enough time for a game, India would be favoured to defeat their neighbours on most days of the week. The second IF – is for Sri Lanka to then dust themselves off from defeat to India, and somehow beat a Pakistan team who now reckon they are cricket’s Rocky Balboa story. It is entirely possible that Pakistan wake up on the wrong side of Mickey Arthur, and get spanked to all corners by Angelo Mathews. For all the IF permutations in this prose, that may well be the most likely. The final IF – stay with me – is if SA go down gallantly to India, and their net run-rate doesn’t suffer too much. Then, with all those other IF situations coming together, the Proteas could somehow sneak into the last four. To dare to dream of a semi-final would be desperately premature, because India presents an Everest on its own. If it’s going for India, they soar and become impossible to live with, much like England at the moment. But, when they stutter, they have a soft underbelly, one that has Virat Kohli spitting his expensive dummy in a fashion not dissimilar to Steve Smith of Australia. SA insist that rain hurt them against Pakistan, but their batting didn’t warrant victory, and they must again search within, or they will once again be looking on, without, to mangle a line from The Great Gatsby. AB de Villiers proudly stated that his squad had 15 potential match-winners, but this tournament has only seen 11 of them at play, and perhaps only a handful of those looking like winning a match. Common sense dictates that the selectors must consider changes, and left-arm spinner Keshav Maharaj has to come into the picture, as a supplement to Imran Tahir. For too long SA have insisted on a one-spinner policy, but these over-used surfaces in the Champions Trophy may encourage the slower men. Morne Morkel can’t be left out again, given the hostility and sincerity of his spell at Edgbaston. Kagiso Rabada is the spearhead, and Chris Morris gives the batting some late mongrel, or at least the suggestion of it. Wayne Parnell, then, must be in danger, but the Proteas need infinitely more from their stars come Sunday. David Miller, without a Test cap to his name, dug in and produced the sole bit of grit against Pakistan, despite his job description leaning towards grievous bodily harm. He enjoyed it, he said, but he surely would have loved it more if he had esteemed company at the other end. Too many of his middle-order men wilted in the Pakistani cauldron of the first hour. The Oval will be no place for shrinking violets, because India will throw the kitchen sink at them. And, if they thought Birmingham sounded like an away game, they will be shocked to hear the decibel count in south London on Sunday.