Yesterday the dams levels feeding the city were: Berg River Dam at 32.2%, Steenbras Lower at 28%, Steenbras Upper at 53.8%, Theewaterskloof at 15.3%, Voelvlei at 16.6% and Wemmershoek at 36.6%. Informal Settlements, Water and Waste Services and Energy mayco member Xanthea Limberg said: “Although we are grateful for any rain, dam storage levels have not been impacted by the rain much. “It will take at least three consecutive winters of above-average rainfall to make a real difference to the dam levels and therefore continuing to cut water use drastically is vital. It will also help us to build up some reserves for another tough summer that is expected.” Limberg urged people to keep their daily water usage to under 100 litres a person a day, whether at home or away, while “level 4 water restrictions remain in place indefinitely over the long-term and could even be intensified if warranted”. Mayor Patricia De Lille said: “We have yet to meet the collective water usage target of 600 million litres of water a day, so I am encouraging and urging residents to keep saving water as the need to use water sparingly remains as pressing as ever. “Due to the unpredictability of weather patterns and the impacts of climate change, we don’t know when we will get sufficient rains again as Cape Town is a water-scarce region.”   In reviewing the weather of the past week, Weather SA spokesperson Hannelee Doubell said the storm ran its course as expected, but the heavy winds were stronger than gale force. Rainfall was between 30 and 100mm. The second cold front that followed was less intense, with near gale-force winds, while at present there are no storms developing in the atmosphere, said Doubell.   Regional head of the Western Cape Water and Sanitation, Rashid Khan, said less rain was received than anticipated and the rain only dampened the earth, while the increase in river flows did not lead to significant flows into dams. “There is a noticeable turnaround in the dam levels. However, much more rain is required to significantly increase their levels,” said Khan.