Western Cape Premier Helen Zille will not take her suspension from the activities of the DA lying down. A few hours after being served with the notice of her suspension, she has come out guns blazing, questioning the procedural way the suspension was handled. DA leader Mmusi Maimane said in a statement released on Saturday that Zille's colonialism tweets she made in March, and subsequent communication, undermined the party's reconciliation projects and its efforts to unite all South Africans. He said despite his request to Zille that she should apologise to South Africa and the party, she refused to do so. A disciplinary process against Zille over the tweets is underway and it's believed that Maimane has asked that the federal legal commission expedite the matter. Although she has been suspended from the activities of the party – which include attending meetings, speaking on public platforms and campaigning for the party, Zille still remains the Western Cape Premier. However, this is not enough for her and she has indicated that she will challenge the decision to suspend her. "The DA decided to charge me in terms of the Federal Constitution. I am obviously prepared to face a full disciplinary hearing. I have not accepted that the DA has a right to find me guilty and penalise me before the hearing even takes place. I cannot be bullied into resigning or incriminating myself", Zille said in a statement. She also said the decision of the Federal Executive to suspend her from the party did not comply with the requirements of the party's own federal constitution, which required that she be given time to make representations on the matter. In addition, Zille said there was a contradiction between the content of a letter she had received from chairman of the Federal Executive, James Selfe, and the statement issued by Maimane. In his letter, Mr Selfe had allegedly given Zille until June 6 to provide reasons why she should not be suspended until the outcome of the disciplinary hearing. "However, Mr Maimane’s statement is unequivocal that the suspension is already operative. "Furthermore, in the DA Leader’s statement, his reason for why the FedEx (federal executive) took this decision is not the full story. This will emerge over time. It is not correct that I have refused to apologise. I have apologised publicly. What I have not agreed to do is plead guilty to charges of misconduct which I never committed."    Zille added: "Because the DA stands for freedom and fairness, we need to follow due process of law, especially when this is initiated by the leader himself."    