He left Cape Town for Joburg in a huff after being relieved of his position while being given two days to motivate why he should not be suspended from his old position as head of forensics. But this may be the least of his problems, a reliable source said. “He is too compromised. It was just impossible for the SAPS to keep him in the top job until the end of August when the new top cop will be announced,” the source added. So now he has to face the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid), which has had its way cleared to conduct an unimpeded investigation into allegations of corruption against him. Mbalula has used his new broom like an axe. Also chopped within the first few days of his taking up his new post was Hawks head Berning Ntlemeza. Moreover, he has vowed at numerous engagements with communities across the country, and in meetings with police top brass, that it will not be business as usual for the police. As Mbalula weighs who to propose as the next national police commissioner, Parliament has some ideas of its own which it wants to bounce off the minister. And MPs could do it as early as Wednesday, when Mbalula is expected to brief the portfolio committee on police on the spat between the now-axed Phahlane and Ipid chief Robert McBride. Committee chairperson Francois Beukman said on Sunday the committee would raise its proposal for national commissioner with Mbalula because it wanted the system to be changed. A few weeks ago the committee proposed the Civilian Secretariat for Police drive the policy proposal on the appointment of the police chief. Beukman said at the time that the National Development Plan (NDP) requires the president to appoint the head of police on a competitive basis. The role of Parliament was also addressed in the meeting with the Civilian Secretariat for Police. Beukman had said a panel must be appointed by the president to select the national police commissioner and his/her deputy. This would open up opportunities for many people to compete for selection. The panel, as directed by the NDP, would drive the selection process and make recommendations to the president on the successful candidates for the positions of head of the police and the deputy. The new acting national commissioner is Lesetja Mothibi. But his appointment is very much a holding position. He is close to retirement age, and has no ambitions for the top job, according to our source. The contract of suspended police head Riah Phiyega comes to an end on Saturday. She was appointed in June 2012, but suspended in October 2015 following the release of the Marikana report, which recommended her removal. But she challenged the report in court. Mbalula wanted a new commissioner by August to create stability and concentrate on the fight against crime. Political and Development Hub