The ANC yesterday reiterated its decision on the government withdrawing South Africa’s membership from the International Criminal Court. Environmental Affairs Minister Edna Molewa said the government was not planning to review its decision on the ICC. Government came under fire after allowing Sudanese president Omar al-Bashir to leave the country despite a court order barring him. Bashir has two warrants of arrest issued by the ICC and it was expected that South Africa, as a signatory to the Rome Statute, would arrest him during the meeting of the African Union in June 2015. He is facing charges of genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity related to the conflict in Darfur. Molewa, who is also the chairperson of the ANC subcommittee on International Relations, told the media in Johannesburg that they were not backing down on the ICC matter. “For the ANC subcommittee as we are here today, the mandate to withdraw from the ICC was derived from our own structures. “At this point in time there has not been any review of that mandate,” Molewa said. “We understood that mandate to be saying that, as the ANC, we need to ensure that we consult at an African Union level, which has been happening since the decision was made. “We also needed to ensure that the discussion was happening at an ICC level on some possible amendments of the statutes... ” Molewa said discussions have also been taking place with members of other countries related to issues surrounding immunities. In April, the adviser to the minister of international relations, Dire Tladi, argued in front of the ICC that there was no duty under law for South Africa to arrest a serving head of state such as Bashir. “That part that deals with immunities is the issue. “We have had discussions with several countries about that, for that area to be amended – in fact we would be helped if the court focused on that part,” Molewa said. She was expanding on the party’s discussion document on international relations in the run-up to the policy conference later this month. She said they have had to deal with strengthening African instruments which include African courts, a project which was ongoing. “We are not just sitting. “South Africa and the ANC has never said that we could ever be seen to be allowing any form of impunity and this is the reason why our mandate is to ensure that,” she said. “International law should not be designed to favour powerful states, who have used the international system to their advantage, and to advance their own interests at the expense of poor countries in the Southern hemisphere. “Consistent with the resolution of the NGC regarding the withdrawal from the ICC, the discussion document notes that South Africa has been involved in the processes leading to the merger of the African Court of Justice and the African Court of Human and People’s Rights; the review of the mandate of the Pan-African Parliament; and the operationalisation of financial institutions such as the African Development Bank,” Molewa said. “This is to help the continent to craft its own home-grown solutions that are informed by a clear-eyed analysis of its own realities and the broader continental aspirations,” Molewa added.