With just a day before the ANC policy conference, the civil society organisation that derailed the government s implementation of e-tolls is now pushing for President Jacob Zuma s removal. The Organisation Undoing Tax Abuse (Outa) became the third organisation to compile a dossier detailing claims of Zuma and his associates being involved in state capture. The organisation wants the 175-page document to be filed in Parliament before a motion of no-confidence in Zuma is debated and voted on. Yesterday, Parliament re fused to say what would happen to the dossier handed to it. Spokesperson for Parliament Moloto Mothapo said National Assembly Speaker Baleka Mbete would have to look at the document before deciding on the next course of action.He said issues raised by Outa in its document were covered by multiple investigations into state capture. The portfolio committees on transport, public enterprises, mineral resources and home affairs are investigating state capture. Mothapo said Mbete would decide soon on the matter. What needs to be emphasised here is that those are issues that Parliament is already seized with, he added. Outa said it hoped its document would be tabled in the national legislature before lawmakers cast the ballot on the motion of no-confidence against Zuma. It described the document as being aimed to expose the reality and extent of Zuma s conduct and connection to state capture . Our case is compelling, and shows there is no doubt about the truth of the claims of state capture and provides those in positions of authority with sufficient evidence for justifying the removal of Zuma as president of South Africa, the organisation said in a statement. Yesterday, Outa chairperson Wayne Duvenage said the dossier, which took several months to compile, was presented to the acting Secretary of Parliament, Baby Tyawa, at about midday. We want the MPs to be aware about its contents. We believe it s fair to empower them so that they can make an informed decision on how to vote, Duvenage said. He also said they would ensure that it was distributed to chief whips of all parties represented in Parliament as well as the members of the ANC s national executive committee (NEC). It would also be presented to the Hawks, Minister of Police Fikile Mbalula, the National Prosecuting Authority and Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane. Zuma s spokesperson, Bongani Ngqulunga, could not be immediately reached for comment as his cellphone went unanswered. The South African Council of Churches has also released a report which warned that the country was on the brink of becoming a mafia state as a result of state capture. The appointment of Mineral Resources Minister Mosebenzi Zwane, the appointment and retention of Faith Muthambi and the sacking of former finance ministers Nhlanhla Nene and Pravin Gordhan are allocated their own chapters in the dossier. Zwane s spokesperson, Martin Madlala, and Gigaba s spokesperson, Mayihlome Tshwete, could not be reached for comment by the time of publication as their phones were off. Outa contends that Zuma allowed himself to be influenced in his appointment of ministers, appointed poorly qualified and incompetent individuals in decision-making positions, and allowed corrupt individuals to benefit from state coffers or failed to institute action when he became aware of such conduct. Duvenage said Outa believed that significant and sufficient input had been provided to warrant the removal of Zuma through investigative media reports and the Public Protector s reports on Nkandla and state capture. This document provides a basis for potential removal from office and prosecution of a number of officials in key state institutions, he said.