Oakbay issued a regulatory filing yesterday saying the reason for River Group’s termination of their services was due to its revised assessment of association risk surrounding the company and its shareholders. River Group’s decision comes after a trail of e-mails, which seemingly cement allegations of the Gupta family’s hold over President Jacob Zuma, were leaked to the media last week. River Group is a JSE sponsor, designated adviser and international corporate finance boutique with a 19-year track record. “Oakbay Resources is in the process of identifying and appointing a new sponsor. The effective date of River Group’s termination shall not be earlier than July 31, 2017 and shareholders will be advised in due course as to developments in this regard,” Oakbay said. The Gupta family businesses have been dealt a series of blows, including the loss of senior staff and banking facilities, amid allegations of political meddling and state capture. South African banks, including Absa, Nedbank, FNB and Standard Bank, have severed ties with the Guptas' businesses due to the perceived political risks of being associated with the family. Auditors KPMG and sponsors Sasfin Capital resigned as Oakbay’s respective service providers earlier this year over concerns about the family’s business activities. Oakbay Resources is a JSE-listed miner of energy-related resources, with a priority focus on uranium. The company mines gold deposits as a by-product and also offers outsourced contracting to the mining industry. Oakbay is expected to report a loss of nearly R1billion because of an R880million impairment recorded against its Shiva Uranium mine due to low uranium prices and reduced gold output. Meanwhile it has emerged that an ANC Youth League member and former pastor wrote to the Guptas asking for funding of more than R200000. Nkosana Mtolo, who is a member of the Gauteng ANCYL provincial executive committee, wrote to Ajay Gupta on March 4, 2014 requesting that that he should fund the league’s charity drive in Daveyton, Ekurhuleni, “as part of your social responsibility”. The leaked Gupta e-mails show that Mtolo instructed Gupta to deposit the money
into his personal Nedbank account. At the time, Mtolo was serving as the league’s branch secretary of ward 69. Yesterday, he told Cape Times’ sister newspaper The Star that the Guptas did not respond to his e-mail request, and neither did the other corporate citizens to whom he had written. He said the money had to be deposited into his bank account due to a resolution of the ANCYL. “Our branch did not have a bank account at the time, so it was resolved that any money should be deposited either in the bank account of the branch chairperson, secretary or treasurer,” he said. He vehemently denied that he was a Gupta agent. “We are revolutionaries, we are not puppets of anybody. We need to address the structural problems in our society. Unfortunately, we are drawn into discussing one family. We are not speaking out against the construction cartel or the bank collusion.” Mtolo warned against the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture, saying it must not paint Zuma as a compromised leader. “That’s not correct. We welcome the inquiry. The president must move with speed in establishing it.” Last week, the ANC national executive committee resolved that a judicial commission of inquiry be established to look into the controversial phenomenon. Mtolo’s story will sharpen the debate over the authenticity of the e-mails, which the Guptas have dismissed as fake news. It mirrors that of Police Minister Fikile Mbalula’s former spokesperson, Anda Bici, who also approached the Guptas asking for funding, according to the leaked e-mails. Bici wrote to Atul Gupta in June 2014 and asked for funding for an ANCYL project totalling R6.3m. The spin doctor reportedly confirmed the e-mail, saying: “It is a general phenomenon to ask for sponsorship of businessmen and women. I am delighted that he never responded or helped though.”