CHURCHILL. Directed by Jonathan Teplitzky. With Brian Cox, Miranda Richardson, John Slattery, Julian Wadham, James Purefoy. In terms of narrative and nuance, Churchill has a limited scope. Director Jonathan Teplitzky and screenwriter Alex von Tunzelmann follow the English prime minister (Brian Cox) over the course of several days leading up to the D-Day invasion. Although that 1944 mission – “Operation Overlord” – was ultimately a success, Winston Churchill had his doubts. The film spends a lot of time dressing down its subject – Churchill argues with everyone in his immediate circle – yet Churchill celebrates him anyway. This incongruity is frustrating and Teplitzky deepens it with one overwrought, predictable choice after another. When we are first introduced to the title character, he is standing on a beach. The tide is red – at least in Churchill’s imagination, where he worries that the invasion will lead to a bloodbath. Churchill meets with generals – Eisenhower (John Slattery) and Montgomery (Julian Wadham) – begging them to find an alternative to a full-on assault. Although everyone else, including King George (James Purefoy), agrees it is the best shot at defeating Germany, Churchill protests and bellows, more out of ego than out of concern for Allied forces, turning Churchill into the study of a man facing encroaching obsolescence. Meanwhile, Churchill’s wife, Clementine (Miranda Richardson), struggles to shape her husband into the man her country needs him to be, going so far as to work behind his back to stop his foolhardy ideas. As John Lithgow does in his portrayal of Churchill in The Crown, Cox plays the character as an ageing, stubborn blowhard who can’t fathom why anyone might not take him seriously. Unlike that Netflix series, however, the perspective of Churchill is decidedly male-centric. Cox’s Churchill is so arrogant and contemptuous of modern military strategy that there is a perverse satisfaction in seeing Slattery’s Eisenhower knock him down a peg. Teplitzky betrays his sympathy for Churchill, filming Cox with seemingly endless, fawning slow-motion shots, burnished by evocative shadows. Churchill is capable of listening to reason, but only insofar as it aligns with his own point of view – or comes from the king, the only person to whom he’s deferential. The Washington Post