About 99 models representing all body types will feature collections of 10 
designers at the Isivivana Centre to an audience of about 500 people. The brainchild of Bongani Matenjwa, 24, the two-day event will take place on September 9 and 10. Matenjwa is both a resident and presenter on community radio station Zibonele FM. “People in Khayelitsha love fashion, they love to dress up, but not everyone is familiar with fashion 
week. “There have been fashion shows in the past, done on a small scale, but designers never got the chance to express themselves as the platform was not big enough. “This time we are going bigger, involving local performers, rappers, singers, dancers, stalls and each designer will have their own models.” Matenjwa said they had no ambition to be anything like existing fashion weeks based in the city. “We want to be different, we want to bring across our culture and our own style.” The young presenter said Khayelitsha was very close to his heart. “When people hear about our township, they 
always think crime, but there is more to Khayelitsha. Come and experience it at KFW.” Matenjwa said KFW has become more than just an event. It’s also a developmental platform where people will learn how to brand and market themselves while being introduced to various new markets. “Currently, most designers only sell on social media. “We want to pull local designers to showcase their brand and develop them to know their market.” Mfuleni-based formal wear designer Sinethemba Harmans, 22, said he sees KFW as a foot in the door. “This is a great platform and I am very excited about it. “I am a classic guy; I love smart casual and formal clothes, so people can look forward to something fresh and elegant on the runway.” Harmans said he currently works from home and sells via Facebook and WhatsApp. His dream is to open his own shop. Tickets for the event will be available at the door and cost R30 and R60 for VIP or contact Bongani Matenjwa on 
064 652 6432.  nicola.daniels@inl.co.za 