Pretoria - Something terrible happened in room 2010, 46 years ago, on the day which Ahmed Timol fell to his death and former security policeman Jan Rodrigues is not playing open cards with the court on what it was. This was the contention of counsel for the National Director of Public Prosecutions Advocate Tori Pretorius. He grilled Rodriques on Tuesday at length about discrepancies in his evidence and his statement before the inquest court all those years ago. Pretorius asked the 78-year-old former sergeant whether it is not true that “an accident” caused Timol’s death. He read to him an extract of a book on Timol’s death, in which a former security policeman working at John Vorster Square at  the time, was of the opinion that Timol’s interrogators dangled his body out of the window as part of their torture methods. According to the former security officer, Robbie Bouwer, his interrogators probably held him by the legs, with his face down, out of the window. It is said that Timol’s chin bumped against the window ledge, hence the fractured jaw he had suffered. He also injured his leg in the process, which explained the fractured lower leg. Bouwer said Timol’s leg then probably went into spasm, which hit one of his interrogators in the groin. According to him they then by mistake let go of him, which caused him to fall. But Rodrigues stuck to his version which he gave to the inquest magistrate 46 years ago - that Timol himself jumped out of the window. “That is the terrible thing which happened in that room,” he said. He was also adamant that he saw no injuries on Timol prior to him falling to his death. This was even though several forensic pathologists testified that he had, among others, visible facial injuries. Rodrigues was also adamant that Timol ”enjoyed” a cup of coffee with his interrogators minutes before he had jumped to his death. This was in spite medical evidence that his shattered jaw would not enable him to talk, let alone have coffee. Advocate Howard Varney, acting for the Timol family, at the start of his cross-examination told Rodrigues that that the Timol family and the country at large, only want the truth as to what happened to Timol. “The family does not seek vengeance, they only want the truth. But if you do not disclose the truth, they will seek justice,” he said. Varney said he will argue at the end of the case that Rodrigues’ version of events is fabricated, as he must have seen some injuries when he came face to face with Timol that day. Rodrigues’ cross-examination will proceed on Wednesday.  zelda.venter@inl.co.za  Pretoria News