Parliament - The ANC leaders and members reacted with jubilation after President Jacob Zuma survived the eighth no confidence vote in Parliament. "We were inside Parliament. They said they will topple the president. We have defeated the motion of no confidence," Police Minister Fikile Mbalula said. "We defeated the motion of no confidence, it is a useless motion. The ANC lives, ANC leads," he said. Addressing hundreds of party members and supporters at a big screen in Plein Street, Mbalula also said the governing party would never surrender to DA leader Mmusi Maimane, whom he described as a "stooge". "Mmusi Maimane does not represent the interests of our people. We will never surrender the ANC to a stooge. We are looking for the real stooge," he said. DA had sponsored the motion which was debated which saw Zuma narrowly survive the vote. Out of the 384 MPs that voted, 177 voted in favour and 198 against. There was a total of nine abstentions. Mbalula, who is head of the ANC's mobilisation, said the opposition's push for Zuma to step down was a covert bid the ANC. "They want to come to us with camouflage. They prepare for 2019. We will meet them toe-to-toe," he said. Mbalula claimed that their detractors had come with big screens to support their motion while the ANC had nothing. "We don't have a big screen. We don't have lots of money, but they swim in money," Mbalula said in IsiXhosa. His claims was despite him addressing the crowds from a big screen erected in Plein Street. Mbalula was adamant that Zuma was going nowhere at insistence of the opposition. "If Msholozi goes, he would go on our accord not of the liars. He is our president," he said. Mbalula said the destruction of the ANC would be a blow to the poor who will lose out on the economic freedom the party was pushing. "It is the policy we fight to bring." Mbalula said those who voted with the opposition were "suicide bombers". "We know they praise them. They must know that we are busy and strong," he said. Politics Hub