AN OPEN LETTER TO ANC MPs Don’t allow them to hoodwink you… this is NOT about voting the ANC out of office. The People’s March of No Confidence as Parliamentarians vote today to remove Zuma as president of the Republic is NOT about removing the ANC from Parliament and replacing it with the DA or others. 1. If Zuma is removed as president, only he will be removed. 2. The cabinet members must step down but they remain MPs. 3. The Speaker will become president for a maximum of 30 days until Parliament elects a new president, who will come from the ANC because it is still the majority party! A new president for South Africa can even be elected within a few days after Zuma is voted out. 4. A new cabinet must be appointed and the ANC, as the majority party, will do so. Some of the current cabinet members, or all of them, can be re-appointed. 5. The government will not collapse, as the other institutions of state,  especially the civil service, will still be in place. None of the DGs get fired if the president is no longer there. So government will continue to function. 6. None of the current MPs lose their jobs should the vote be successful. Unless some want to resign in solidarity with Zuma. In any case, those who resign can be replaced by the ANC with others on its list. 7. The DA cannot become the majority party just because Zuma is voted out. So Mr Jackson Mthembu and others: there will be no nuclear bomb thrown into our country should MPs vote Zuma out as president! The only thing is the ANC should start thinking who among its membership must replace Zuma as president. PUBLIC REASSURANCE TO ANC MEMBERS OF PARLIAMENT We are aware that many of you who are contemplating voting with your conscience and supporting the vote of no confidence in Zuma are concerned about the implications should you do so. Many of you and your families are dependent on your parliamentary salary for your livelihood. Should you be recalled from Parliament it will have dire consequences for you. The #SA1stForum hereby undertakes that, should you be called before a disciplinary committee by the ANC because you have supported the motion and voted with your conscience, to provide you with legal assistance at such a hearing on a pro bono basis. All the best for today. On behalf of all of us at SA First Forum. Advocate Rod Solomons Convenor SA1st Forum