At the unveiling of ​the statue of Harry Thembeyakhe Gwala on Sunday, President Jacob Zuma attacked ​the ​SACP for “defending white monopoly capital”. In December, he said “Harry Gwala was against peace but ​I ​defied him”. These two falsehoods must not be left unchallenged. Gwala was a soldier of peace and for peace, he fought “with or without arms”. He joined ​the SA​CP​ before joining the ANC. Same with John Beaver Marks, Dan Tloome, Andrew Mlangeni, Moses Kotane, Raymond Mhlaba, Govan Mbeki and many African communists in the 1940s. ​The ​SACP should have been given an opportunity to speak in memory of their theoretician, Marxist-Leninist, Stalinist and scholar. Cosatu should have spoken because corruption and state capture have downgraded us to junk status. Moreover Gwala would have objected to ​the ​expulsion of Numsa. Sactu, like Cosatu, speak of “unity” ​rather ​than competing federations as we see today. What would Gwala be saying about 23 years of democracy without any housing development in the whole of Edendale? He would not have blamed “white monopoly capital” and ​the ​SACP. How do you build a R246 million palace in Nkandla while the masses live in mud houses? At this function, I asked comrades from Pietermaritzburg about ​the ​absence of housing delivery in Edendale​. They said “landowners are refusing to surrender the land”. I advised them to read ​the ​Expropriation Act. ​The economy is still in the hands of a few but there are ​black ​capitalists who are exploiting workers too​. Good examples are ​the ​BEE component in Lonmin and ​the ​likes of Khulubuse Zuma and Zondwa Mandela of Aurora mines. If 40% in the JSE is foreign, are they all monopoly capitalists and inevitable “enemies”? ​If  “white monopoly capitalists” are enemies, what must we do with them? Is Cash Payment Services not “white monopoly capital”? The president forgot to speak about corruption, self-enriching politicians and bureaucrats and state capture by “Indian Gupta monopoly capitalists”. Gwala would have supported appointing​ a commission of enquiry into state ​capture. He would not have dissolved ​the ​Scorpions ​or insulted ​judges and Thuli Madonsela. Blade Nzimande rose ​by leading the Tsunami Revolution sweeping Zuma in, with Zwelinzima Vavi, Julius Malema, Mac Maharaj, Mo Shaik, Zweli Mkhize, Senzo Mchunu, intellectuals like Karima Brown, Xolela Mangcu, Sipho Seepe, Gugu Nene and some prominent newspaper and radio editors. Now that Nzimande no longer goes on​ pilgrimages to Nkandla, he must be demonised​, says Zuma​. The president elevated him and all those who have deserted him because of future careers but also his association with the Guptas. ​The ANC, SACP and Cosatu are using “memorial lectures” to fight their “civil wars”. The president joined the SACP, hav​ing been recruited by Gwala, who also taught him basic numeracy and literacy skills. Gwala produced Moses Mabhida, William Khanyile, Judson Khuzwayo, Bafana Duma and young disciplined militant and intelligent group​s​ of Cassius Lubisi, Thami Mseleku, Mi Hlatshwayo and Reggie Hadebe. The president gave us Hlaudi Motsoeneng, Ellen Tshabalala, Brian Molefe, Mosebenzi Zwane, Richard Mdluli, Faith Muthambi and Des van Rooyen. Let us judge leaders by the quality of the leadership they produced. Nzimande, Julius Malema, Mkhize a​re​ product​s​ of Msholozi​. We must urge ANC factions to use ​memorial ​lectures for political empowerment ​rather ​than factional wars and ​in ​defence of their centrality in corruption. Siyanda Mhlongo KwaDukuza