The DA has filed papers in the Constitutional Court requesting direct access to argue that the decision of Minister of International Relations and Co-operation Maite Emily Nkoana-Mashabane to grant diplomatic immunity to Grace Mugabe should be set aside as wholly without legal merit. Central to the DA's argument is that President Robert Mugabe's wife is not a member of the Zimbabwean government and was in South Africa on personal business. There is nothing in either South African or international law which renders her deserving of diplomatic immunity, the DA said in a statement. Johannesburg model Gabriela Engels, 20, alleges she was whipped with an electrical cord by Grace Mugabe. She has also filed court papers challenging the government’s decision, advocacy group AfriForum said. Mugabe is accused of attacking Engels after the model visited the Mugabes’ sons, Robert jr and Chatunga, at an upmarket Sandton hotel during Women's Month. Afriforum has given legal backing to Engels and is working on the case with former National Prosecuting Authority prosecutor Gerrie Nel. "The DA believes that the decision by the minister, in granting immunity, was hasty, embarrassing and above all illegal and unconstitutional. "It is frankly unconscionable that after the scathing ruling by the Constitutional Court in the (Sudanese President Omar) al-Bashir matter, that the ANC-led government would once again let a high-profile person escape justice in South Africa. "It is clear that Grace Mugabe was granted immunity simply to shield her from being tried in a court of law for her assault on Gabriella Engels and two others on 13 August, 2017. "Condoning such behaviour, as the granting of immunity did, cannot possibly be in the interests of South Africa. There is therefore no legal basis for such a decision. "This incident is yet another example of how the ANC-led government is intent on protecting the elite of Africa by abusing its statutory powers at the expense of justice for ordinary South Africans."