Businessman Mzwanele Manyi is confident that the controversial Gupta family will no longer have editorial influence on The New Age and ANN7 media entities which he recently bought from them. Manyi said this yesterday at the ANN7 studios in Midrand where he also, for the first time, publicly revealed documents which showed he was the sole shareholder of Lodidox, which bought the Gupta media entities from Oakbay Investments via a vendor financing deal for R450 million this month. The purchase triggered some controversy, with many claiming Manyi was being used by the Gupta family, who have been under increasing pressure because of state capture allegations against them. The Guptas had also found it difficult to continue with some of their business operations in South Africa after several banks closed the family’s accounts last year. The New Age and ANN7, which mostly feature positive news about the government, also earned a significant amount of advertising revenue from government departments. There were also reports of staff members at both entities being intimidated by their managers. Yesterday, Manyi gave an assurance that these media houses would now enjoy total editorial independence and that the Gupta family members had vacated their offices at the Midrand building. “There is no Gupta office here. I now occupy Atul’s (Gupta) office. I call the shots here. There will be zero influence of the Guptas and I don’t have to consult anybody on these matters (editorial policy),” said Manyi. Despite this new wave of change, Manyi said he would not subject The New Age to the Audit Bureau of Circulation, which calculates the sales that newspapers make. In his defence, Manyi said the system was not credible. “We are not convinced about the credibility of that arrangement. To pretend that ABC is water-tight is not true. We will employ independent auditors to audit our numbers,” he said. Manyi’s decision to lay bare the Lodidox shareholding documents came after several media houses threatened him with CoR24 forms, a legal route used by journalists to request a company’s shareholding information. He said that although this practice was lawful, it was unusual. “My initial stance to meet them in court was informed by my right to privacy, which I later decided to waive in the public interest. It was indeed disappointing but not unexpected to see rather malicious reporting and demeaning innuendos in media coverage related to the purchase by Lodidox.” The documents showed that Lodidox was registered in 2012, and its director Christian Gouws resigned prior to the acquisition of ANN7 and The New Age. @lindilesifile