The event was held at the King David School Linksfield swimming pool in Johannesburg on Sunday. For Phosa, who is the chairperson of Special Olympics SA, the event was much more than just an icy dip in the water. He said no one should be discriminated against on the basis of disability. “Our goal is to create a world where everyone is accepted and welcomed. “We are helping to make the world a better, healthier, and a more joyful place. “The disabled must be included in everything and this is a world movement that we are proud to be part of. “One athlete, one volunteer, one family member and and one plunger is what we aimed for,” said Phosa. Former Bafana Bafana player Mark Fish, who also took part, said he was  fortunate to work closely with people from Special Olympics SA. “I have spent time with these athletes and they have motivated me and many people in the world to raise awareness and funds for the Special Olympics,” he said. A Special Olympics SA board member, Ephrane Mohlakane, who also jumped into the cold water, said the Special Olympics was a great movement that had changed the lives of many people. “I want to see South Africans respecting the disabled and giving them support so that they can live a normal life,” Mohlakane said. Shane Bentley, 32, who has been selected to represent South Africa in ice skating in Austria, won a gold medal this year. He said it had helped him show that he was a good swimmer and had made him feel special.” Barbara Stewart, 57, another Special Olympian, also shared her experience. She said being physically challenged was not an easy journey, but they were filled with hope. “We have hope - I have hope, and the Special Olympics gives us that. I am here today, healthy and grateful," she added. Stewart has dedicated her life to supporting what the Special Olympics seeks to achieve in bringing hope to the disabled. According to Mosito Mphaphathi, president of South African Martial Arts (kickboxing), it gave the disabled an opportunity to prove themselves as athletes. “We are here to support these athletes and to help them achieve their goals.” The message from South African stand-up comedian and entertainment promoter John Vlismas, who also got into the chilly water, to the athletes was: “Never give up, whatever you are doing; just keep going until you do it.”  ayanda.ntshangase@inl.co.za 