So said leading Female Specialist Scientist Professor Caradee Wright. Wright recently joined co-conveners Rejoyce Gavhi-Molefe (Phd) and Dorothy Ngila to launch a documented account of inspirational and real stories about female academics who challenged the odds to realise their dreams. Titled Because Science is Fun - Stories of Emerging Female Scientists in South Africa, the awe-inspiring compilation of stories was released by Science and Technology Minister Naledi Pandor. Wright leads the Climate and Health Research Programme at the South African Medical Research Council's (SAMRC) Environment and Health Research Unit, and focuses on environmental health in Africa. Known for her honest and credible opinions on climate change, she initiated the project to share the stories of 25 emerging South African female scientists with the aim of inspiring the next generation of young female investigators, medical researchers and scientists to pursue their professional dreams. “The book is a culmination of about three years of hard work. (We) had an idea to capture stories in such a way that it was really accessible to young people, and we wanted to get a variety of different stories from across South Africa and share them with many young people, to let them see that there are people just like them, and if you work hard and you have fun along the way, you can get your PhD too.” The book reveals how the women overcame financial and personal challenges and unearths the misconceptions in a patriarchal society that certain careers are designed only for men. It profiles pioneering young academics such as Dr Christina Thobakgale, whose work focuses on understanding why HIV progresses faster or slower in different people; Thifhelimbilu Daphney Bucher, an aspiring nuclear physicist who reveals how she had to endure a six-kilometre walk come rain or sunshine to graduate in Grade 12 at her secondary school; and Anel du Plessis, an NRF-rated scientist who is involved in environmental law training for the private and public sectors. “Vivid recollections liberate the emotions of the featured women and their long walk to academic freedom,” Wright said. While there are still barriers to women achieving in the male-dominated field of science, but Wright emphasised that women should be encouraged to have confidence in their abilities and realise their potential. She said it was key that young women had visible role models in their lives to see what other women have achieved and that it's possible for them to do the same. Because Science is Fun was published independently, supported by the Organisation for Women in Science for the Developing World and funded by the Department of Science and Technology, the preceding said organisation and the Academy of Science of South Africa.