Vearey had been the police’s head of detectives and Jacobs was head of crime intelligence when they were demoted last year, with the former made head of the Cape Town cluster and the latter head of the Wynberg cluster. Judge Hilary Rabkin-Naicker, along with ruling that the pair be moved back to their old positions, also awarded them costs. Standing outside the  building, which was home to the apartheid security police, Jacobs said both he and Vearey were satisfied with the judgment. “We are elated with the decision, that the proper process and rule of law have been confirmed and the implications are massive (for officers),” Jacobs added. Vearey said theirs was not the only such case within the ranks of the police and this would set a precedent for officers whose situations were otherwise hopeless. Their lawyer, Clive Hendricks, said thousands of police officers were transferred without any forethought and who never had the opportunity to challenge these transfers. According to Jacobs’s affidavit he was handed a letter, and later told at a meeting of top officers in June last year, that he would be moved to the Wynberg cluster by the police’s head of human resources, Christina Ngwenya, without consultation. Jacobs testified in the case that his replacement, Mzwandile Tiyo, did not have matric or a security clearance, requirements for the job. Both Vearey and Jacobs told the court that their transfers had had an adverse affect on their fight against crime in the Western Cape. Jacobs said corrupt police officials had been supplying firearms and illegally providing firearm licences to gang leaders. A former top police officer Christiaan Prinsloo, sentenced to 18 years in prison, had admitted in his plea bargain to illegally supplying 2 000 firearms to an Athlone businessman, who acted as an intermediary to gangs on the Cape Flats. The firearms had been meant for destruction but had been stolen and diverted to the gangsters. Police spokesperson Athlenda Mathe said: “The SAPS has taken note of the ruling by the Western Cape Labour Court in the matter between Popcru, Major-General Jacobs and Major-General Vearey vs the SAPS. “Management is studying the court’s decision.”  quinton.mtyala@inl.co.za 