Although aubergine is delicious inside a wrap, it can also be used as a clever replacement for the wrap itself. By brushing the aubergine slices with oil and griddling them, the aubergine retains enough texture to hold a filling, while still having that pleasant, caramelised finish on the surface. Alfred fills his aubergine rolls with a delicious mix of gently-spiced quinoa and paneer, before finishing each roll with a handful of crunchy red slaw. WHAT YOU’LL NEED 3 medium aubergines 1 tsp cumin seeds, toasted 1 pinch of salt 4 ½ tbsp of olive oil Quinoa and paneer filling 100g of quinoa 1 small onion, chopped 1 tsp ginger-garlic paste ¼ tsp ground turmeric ¼ tsp chilli powder ​100g of paneer, grated 1 tsp garam masala ¼ bunch of coriander, chopped 1 dash of vegetable oil 1 tsp salt Crunchy vegetables 1 red beetroot, coarsely grated ​2 carrots, coarsely grated 1 red pepper, cut small WHAT TO DO 1. Wash and cook the quinoa as per packet instructions, using water or stock. Drain and set aside. Mix 3½ tablespoons of olive oil, toasted cumin and salt in a bowl. Trim the aubergines and slice lengthways into 4mm thick slices. Brush the slices generously with the oil marinade. Place a griddle pan or large frying pan over medium heat and add 1 tablespoon of olive oil. Once hot, fry the aubergine slices for approximately 2-3 minutes on each side until soft and coloured. 2. Once all the aubergine slices are cooked, set aside on kitchen towel to drain. For the paneer and quinoa filling, place a non-stick pan over a medium heat and add vegetable oil. Once hot, add the onion and sauté until a light golden brown colour. Add the ginger-garlic paste, turmeric, salt and chilli powder and sauté for a further 2 minutes. Add  the cooked quinoa and cook for a further 5-7 minutes, then add the grated paneer and remove from the heat. Finish with garam masala powder and chopped coriander​. 3. Lay out the aubergine slices on a chopping board. Spread a generous layer of the filling on top of each and sprinkle over the vegetables. Roll up each slice to enclose the filling. Stack the aubergine rolls on to plates and serve immediately.