The ANC has welcomed Speaker Baleka Mbete's decision that she will allow a secret ballot for Tuesday's vote on the opposition's motion of no confidence in President Jacob Zuma.– but said it remained convinced the motion would not pass. In a surprise turn, Mbete said she had carefully weighed many different factors and interests, and in particular the considerations stressed by the Constitutional Court when it delivered judgment on the application by opposition parties who went to court in a bid to compel her to allow a secret ballot. A simply majority is needed for the motion to pass, which would result in not only the president but his entire cabinet losing their positions. A caretaker president would then be appointed for 30 days.  "The ANC reiterates its stance that we have full confidence in the ANC caucus and individual members of parliament deployed by the African National Congress. We do not, nor have we ever doubted, their loyalty and discipline in relation to the decisions of the movement," ANC spokesman Zizi Kodwa said. "Accordingly, we have no doubt that this frivolous motion, which has been hyped up by opposition parties as some sort of Damascus moment, will fail like many before it." She noted that MPs owed a heavy debt to the public who elected them, and were under no legal obligation to maintain allegiance to the party they represented. And she added that the court had reminded all that a vote of no confidence was a potent tool to hold the president to account. "I understand that a motion of no confidence in the president is a very important matter, a potent tool to hold the president to account. It constitutes one of the severest consequences," she said.  Mbete added she had weighed the need for transparency in political life but was also mindful that MPs should have the freedom to exercise their conscience. And she acknowledged the real threat of retribution against MPs who broke ranks and voted according to conscience. "I therefore determine that voting on the motion of no confidence in the president on August 8 will be by secret ballot," Mbete told a media briefing. The speaker said her decision in this instance should not be seen as setting any particular future precedent. She declined to answer any questions. Opposition parties had said they would rush back to court should the speaker refuse to allow a secret vote. African News Agency