Dlamini Zuma wants to succeed President Jacob Zuma when he steps down as ANC leader in December and possibly become the country's president in 2019. Dlamini Zuma said the country's “strong institutions” would see to it that the elections were peaceful and free and fair. She made the remarks in Johannesburg yesterday during the launch of her book, which highlights her role while at the helm of the AU Commission in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. Dlamini Zuma was the first woman to hold the position in the long history of the continental body. Of the upcoming elections, she said: “People will be looking to elect a government that will deal with the challenges at hand and for the good work that we have started. Children are going to school.” She said she was not pessimistic about the elections, but warned the government to move with speed and “implement what we say we will do in our (election) manifesto”. The coffee-table book she launched highlights the AU Commission's work during her tenure from October 2012 to March this year. It shows Dlamini Zuma with world leaders, past and present, including German Chancellor Angela Merkel. The AU Commission under Dlamini Zuma's leadership is credited with coming up with Agenda 2063, a blueprint to address the continent's socio-economic challenges. It is a 50-year strategic document, but with shorter implementation plans of up to five years to make it easier to monitor. Independent Media executive chairman Dr Iqbal Survé, who attended the launch, hailed Dlamini Zuma as a leader in her own right who had contributed immensely to the development of the country during her stints as minister for home affairs, health and foreign affairs. “We don't celebrate our heroes and heroines enough, particularly during Women's Month. We tend to not recognise the successes of women in our country and the African continent. This month gives us the opportunity to tell the stories of our women on our continent.” He also criticised society's double standards, saying women were subjected to more scrutiny than men. Among other achievements, Dlamini Zuma is credited with standing up to the tobacco industry by banning smoking in public spaces. “During her tenure as minister of foreign affairs, under the presidency of Thabo Mbeki, we had one of the most successful periods as a country internationally. We were held in great stature.” Dlamini Zuma writes in the book's foreword that during her tenure the commission sought to put Africa first in order to ensure a better future for all Africans. She wished the current commission well, saying there would be challenges ahead but that none were insurmountable, adding: “For my part, wherever I shall be and in whatever capacity, I shall for ever remain a soldier for the African cause.”