Ipid spokesperson Moses Dlamini said the docket was submitted to the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) for a decision on prosecution following its three-month probe. The mother-of-three was pepper-sprayed, slapped in the face and allegedly shot dead by a police officer, according to her family. NPA spokesperson Eric Ntabazalila said: “No decision has been taken yet on this case. It is still being processed and a final decision on it will be made soon.” A report submitted to Ipid following the shooting said police officials were closing down an illegal shebeen at Koornhof Street in Gugulethu when patrons allegedly became riotous and the police called for back-up. Ipid had said as more police members arrived on the scene, more community members got involved in the fracas. Community members allegedly attacked the police by throwing stones and also damaged police vehicles. It was further alleged that one of the police officers was surrounded by about 10 people who tried to rob him of his firearm. The officer fired three warning shots. It was later reported to the police that Pita had been taken by a private vehicle to KTC day hospital, where she died. Pita’s uncle was wounded during the incident. Yesterday, Pita’s mother Thobeka said the family had been kept in the dark since her daughter’s death. “It is the first time I have heard anything about this case, and it is not nice because someone’s life was taken away. “Her three children and the rest of the family find it difficult to accept that she is gone from our lives,” she said. “We feel we have been ignored from the outset. We were never offered counselling despite the trauma that we are still going through. We had to organise our own counselling, as if it was our fault that Phumza was killed. “The law did not play its part. That is the feeling we have because Phumza’s children are suffering,” Thobeka said. She said Pita’s uncle, who was wounded in the shooting, had recovered but occasionally still had to visit doctors. The incident sparked outrage from the community who went on a rampage and torched vehicles in protesting against alleged police brutality. The area’s ward councillor, Luvuyo Zondeki, said the incident had deepened divisions between police and residents as nothing was explained to them following the altercation. The area’s community policing forum chairperson, Sonwabile Magida, said residents wanted to know what action would be taken on the officers implicated in the shooting. He said the forum had written to the office of the deputy minister of police requesting that he visit the community and Pita’s family. A meeting was scheduled for the end of September.  siyavuya.mzantsi@inl.co.za 