A 12-year-old Kensington is in Groote Schuur Hospital after being hit in the head by a stray bullet amid an ongoing gang war in the area. Police spokesperson Andre Traut said: “This office can confirm that a 12-year-old girl was shot and wounded when she was caught in the crossfire (after) someone discharged a firearm in Glider Street, Kensington, (yesterday) afternoon at around 12 (noon). The circumstances are being investigated.” No arrests had been made. Kensington Community Police Forum spokesperson Cheslyn Steenberg said the CPF condemned the shooting. “It must be noted that the Kensington CPF has long called for more resources in Kensington/Factreton. Today we again witness the shooting of a innocent child; a child that also wanted to soak up the sun, but in turn she got shot. “Every day our residents fear for their lives, asking who will be next. As a Kensington CPF, we are resolute in our fight for more resources in our community. It's our democratic right to have a safe community,” Steenberg said. The Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) is also investigating a police shooting incident which resulted in road closures at Main Road, Rosebank, between Woolsack Drive and Durban Road, on Sunday morning. Ipid spokesperson Moses Dlamini said: “It is alleged police saw a car being driven recklessly and they stopped it. A passenger allegedly got out and shot at the police, who retaliated and shot the suspect. "The suspect was injured and taken to hospital. The Ipid is conducting a preliminary investigation.” In two unrelated incidents, police arrested a 30-year-old suspect on Saturday in Bishop Lavis after he was found in possession of firearms, explosives and ammunition. The other suspect was also arrested on charges relating to illegal firearm possession. “The intelligence-driven operation, executed by SAPS at the residence of the suspect, led to the seizure of two firearms, a 9mm and a 7.65mm, 600g PE4 explosives, six detonators, one safety fuse, a variety of ammunition of different calibre, a bulletproof vest as well as firearm maintenance equipment,” Traut said. “The circumstances surrounding the seizure, which is regarded as a significant success, and the suspect’s involvement in violent crimes perpetrated in gang-affected areas are under investigation,” Traut added. Police spokesperson Jakobus Marthinus said a 24-year-old suspect was arrested in the the Mitchells Plain cluster after receiving a tip-off on Friday morning. “Members of the Mitchells Plain Cluster Stabilization Unit responded to information they received from the public pertaining to a suspect in possession  of a firearm. "On Friday at about 9am, members spotted a male fitting the description they received and approached and searched the suspect. “(Police) found a 9 mm C7 pistol, ammunition and a magazine in his possession,” Marthinus said. Both suspects were set to appear in court on Monday.  chevon.booysen@inl.co.za 