Four of the incidents were of sons threatening to assault their mothers, including one who threatened to scald his mother with boiling water, said JP Smith, the mayoral committee member for safety and security and social 
services. “There were three incidents where husbands were alleged to have assaulted their wives and children; two incidents of suspects attacking their girlfriends; one where a suspect took his 16-year-old girlfriend from her home against her will; and one call where the complainant indicated that she had been raped,” Smith said. These incidents were probably just a sample as many go unreported, he added. “It is an indictment of our society that women still have to endure this type of abuse on a daily basis," Smith said. ‘‘Not only do we have to do more in terms of fixing our social fabric and arresting the substance abuse that often fuels violence against women, but we also need the criminal justice system to strengthen its resolve to deal with these cases." The City of Cape Town was training metro police officers to respond to domestic violence incidents, he added. “We are also including a specific violence interruption intervention in the case of domestic violence as part of the Neighbourhood Safety Teams initiative, set to start later this year,” Smith said. The Nelson Mandela Foundation has called for solidarity with women who are victims of violence and abuse. The foundation will use its annual lecture series this year to focus on gender inequality, in order to create a 
platform for a national dialogue on dismantling patriarchy and enabling the creation of a more equal and just society. “South African women, particularly rural black women, are faced with a daily struggle against gender inequality fuelled by sexist behaviour, patriarchal practices and a range of violent acts: sexual and other assaults, the violence of poverty, the violence of language, the violence of unequal pay and the violence of racial discrimination," it said in a statement. "It is no longer enough to say we are opposed to violence against women. Now is the time to act."