Favourite place in South Africa? Probably Cape Town, but not because I’m from there. I often wish I wasn’t so I could experience it as a tourist. It never ceases to amaze me with its natural beauty and host of things to get up to. I love my city. Best holiday? Barcelona with my mom when I was 20. The two of us bonded on a cruise after Barcelona, but the Barcelona portion was incredible. I had never seen such beautiful architecture and people in my life. Everyone seemed so stylish and artsy. I fell in love with the cityscape and (the work of architect Antoni) Gaudí. What have you learnt from your travels? I’ve learnt the most in my travels across the world. I love meeting strangers and learning from them or just capturing inspiration with my eye. It’s intriguing observing people who live in other parts of the world and adapting parts of their culture into my own. Ideal travelling companion? That’s a tough one. I’ve travelled with so many different people. I loved travelling with my mother as a child and adult. She’s the best tourist and plans so many interesting trips - sans Google or travel agent with good old-fashioned books. I wouldn’t have seen half the places I’ve seen if she hadn’t planned so well. Beach bum, culture vulture or adrenalin junkie? Hmm, a little bit of a culture vulture and an adrenalin junkie. I don’t like the beach for too long. I need more excitement. Greatest travel luxury? My camera, for sure. Holiday reading? I’m not much of a fiction reader, unless it’s a romance novel, but I’m hoping to finally get through Girl Boss and Big Little Lies. Which place has seduced you? New York City - I think about NYC all the time. I love it there. I could never live there for a long time, but I hope someday to live there for a short period. It’s filled with so much cultural heritage, people are seriously diverse and everything feels extraordinary. Worst travel experience? Travelling from St Kitts to St Maarten on Eid. It was a seven-hour layover before heading 
to Barbados to meet with my 
husband.I was all alone, I had no family around on a religious holiday that’s very significant in my culture. I wasn’t too worried since St Maarten didn’t require visas for South Africans, or so I thought. When I got to border control they sent me marching back to where I came from. I tried to check in and the flight check-in was not available yet, so I was stuck in limbo without wi-fi, food or anything but an airport chair and my luggage. Eventually I burst into screaming tears in the centre of the airport by myself (ha ha). A nice old man who worked for the airline rushed over and asked me what was wrong, I explained and he helped me get checked in super-early and gave me free airport lounge access. I still spent the rest of the 
layover crying because I missed my family, but at least I was 
comfortable. Best hotel? In Barbados, we stayed at the Radisson hotel. It was perfectly situated on one of the most beautiful beaches. We would wake up for 5am swims with the racehorses from the stable next door who were doing hydro rehab. Favourite walk, swim, ride or drive? Definitely walk. Best meal overseas? Wow, that’s really tough. I love vegan at By Chloë in New York City, and probably NYC street food. It’s the best! Favourite city? New York Where to next? I’d love to go to Paris next, I haven’t been there in a while, but I’m most likely heading to the south coast of America and the Caribbean for my husband’s job. It’s amazing there and I’ve made so many friends, so I can’t wait to go back. This time we should go to Jamaica, which is exciting.