"Senzo ran into my hands... he had blood on his chest and back... I knew he had been shot." This is the scene singer Kelly Khumalo described to fans at her 'Up Close and Personal with Kelly Khumalo' concert in Johannesburg  on Thursday evening. Kelly shared slain Senzo Meyiwa's last moments with the crowd when she played a voice clip recalling the details of the fateful Sunday, 26 October 2014, that claimed the life of the South African goalkeeper. The Bafana Bafana and Orlando Pirates captain died after being shot at Kelly's Vosloorus home, in Ekurhuleni, during an alleged robbery. “It was a great day. We were having a great day. Just as we were about to leave, there was a bang at the door and the door opened and two guys walked in. One pointed a gun at me, demanded money and cellphones and I ran to my sister’s room. He followed me. I pushed the door.  Trying to close it.  He pushed back and I pushed again. Up until today I do not know why he gave up on pushing, but he did for some reason,” she said. Kelly explained that as she fought for her life she realised that she didn't know where her children were. She knew they were in the house, but she didn't know where. “Later on I realised that my children were in the house. When I opened the door my mom, Senzo and his friends were fighting the intruders. My son watched it all happen,” she said. At the time, it was alleged that two men entered the house and demanded cellphones, money and other valuables. Read: Senzo Meyiwa murder now a cold case, says PI A tearful Kelly told the crowd how she rushed to her son's room when she heard two gunshots and when Senzo ran to her covered in blood she knew he had been shot. “... Then Senzo ran into my hands. I thought he was trying to protect me from the intruders, but he had blood on his chest and back. That’s when I knew he had been shot. We couldn’t even wait for the ambulance to arrive. We rushed him to hospital. I did everything I could. I didn’t want him to think I gave up on him... I prayed until I had no more words to say,” she said. "... South Africa may have lost its number one (goal)keeper... I lost my number one fan." Senzo's killers are still at large. In May, top private investigator Rick Crouch said the investigation into the murder of Bafana Bafana and Orlando Pirates goalkeeper can now be described as a “cold case”. “Police have got nothing in their investigation,” Crouch said. Anyone with any information that could lead to the arrest of the perpetrators should contact Crime Stop at 08600 10111 or SMS Crime Line at 32211. 