Griquas 44 Western Province 34 (Halftime 17-15) Griquas’ stunning running rugby, Western Province’s ill-discipline and unforced errors – a number of things led to John Dobson’s team suffering defeat yesterday. On a windy afternoon in Kimberley, both teams scored five tries, and Province had more possession than the hosts, and they also visited the opposition’s red zone 15 times as opposed to Griquas’ seven. But it was the hosts that obviously made better use of their opportunities to secure their first win in four games and move to fourth on the Currie Cup log, while WP slipped to sixth. Province made just too many unforced errors in the first half, including tactical ones, while their defensive weaknesses were also cruelly exposed in the build-up to Griquas’ first two tries as they shockingly slipped a number of one-on-one tackles. A perfect example of that was when former WP man and prop Liam Hendricks showed huge power and good footwork to brush off a couple of Province defenders to get the first try of the match, and we also saw it when the hosts again made full use of their numerical advantage to run in another try through wing Ederies Arendse. But those tries didn’t just show WP’s defensive lapses, it also served as reward for Griquas, who did well to keep the ball alive and kept the pace of the game up. And, of course, the fact that WP were given two yellow cards in the match didn’t help them either (they let in two tries during scrumhalf Dewaldt Duvenage’s sin-bin spell), and it again showed that their discipline is also something that could do with some checking. It wasn’t all bad for the visitors, though. There were some nice touches by Province, like speedster Seabelo Senatla’s stunning line to put WP in the lead for the first time in the match with their third try, or flyhalf Kurt Coleman getting the bonus-point for Province after selling a top dummy and pacing through to score. Fullback SP Marais also added to those attractive touches with a line-breaking run to score, and after a much-improved period in the first half, WP moved the ball around nicely and a beautiful skip-pass by Coleman to wing Bjorn Basson out wide set him up for their second try. But Griquas deserved to bag the superb win, and WP will need to improve in a number of areas if they want to prevent their already-tainted Currie Cup campaign from being in serious trouble. Griquas: Tries: Liam Hendricks, Ederies Arendse, Renier Botha, Tiaan Dorfling, Wendel Wehr Conversions: Andre Swarts (5) Penalties: Swarts, George Whitehead (2). WP: Tries: Nizaam Carr, Bjorn Basson, Seabelo Senatla, Kurt Coleman, SP Marais Conversions: Kurt Coleman (2), Damian Willemse Penalties: Willemse Yellow card: Dewaldt Duvenage, SP Marais Other result Blue Bulls (10) 20 Sharks (13) 28