Cape Town - Residents have been warned to keep an eye out for snakes on their properties. As a result of the persistent drought in the province, the slithery reptiles are now forced to look for water near properties with pools and water features. Shaun MacLeod, the Reptile Education Awareness Consultants (Reac) co-ordinator in the province, said the drought would push snakes closer to homes. “At the end of winter, as spring comes around, these reptiles come out of hibernation. The first thing they do is look for food and water in areas close to railway sidings and Telkom pylons,” MacLeod said. But because of the drought, water would not be in abundance there. “They will likely head to properties with water, pools, water features. It doesn't want to be there but it is looking for water,” he said. He said leaking taps or geysers could also attract rodents and their natural predators, snakes. The Aurora house snake, Brown house snake, Cape Cobra, and Puff Adders could be found on properties in mountainous areas, including Cape Town and Sea Point, MacLeod said. However, he has been called out to remove snakes including the Cape Cobra in Bellville, Parow and Goodwood as snakes followed train lines through these areas. “Snakes keep the balance in nature. If you see a snake, leave it alone and call for assistance,” he said. Cape Nature spokesperson Marietjie Engelbrecht said there are at least five kinds of venomous snakes in the Western Cape, namely puff adders, Cape cobras, the rinkhals, the boomslang and the black spitting Cobra. A bite from any of these snakes is dangerous and potentially deadly. “Snakes are an important part of the environment as they play an important ecological role in controlling rodent populations. "Members of the public are encouraged to treat them all with respect as the particular snake may be venomous and potentially dangerous,” Engelbrecht said. Snakes can be kept away from houses by trimming dense shrubs away from the building or removing any loose building, or other, material next to the house. This usually attracts rodents, which are prey for most snakes. “If a snake is discovered in one's garden, please contact your nearest nature conservation office as soon as possible. Conservation officials will be able to put you in touch with the nearest authorised snake capturer. "CapeNature recommends that snakes are not interfered with in any way, but merely observed from a distance. This will aid the snake capturer to quickly find and remove the snake. "These snakes are then released safely in natural areas,” Engelbrecht said. MacLeod can be contacted on 082 532 5033. Cape Nature head office can be contacted at 021 483 0000. Cape Times