Traditional dishes showcase the diversity of our country. One such dish is the popular South African 'Sishebo'. 
Mi Casa’s lead singer and aspiring chef and restaurateur, has reinvented the recipe, which can be anything from a tomato and onion mix, to a stew and a potjie. 
 
“My secret ingredient is Castle Milk Stout, which compliments the richness of the red meat,” says J’Something.
 
“Sishebo is not sishebo without a dunking component and a hands on experience – so my recipe includes pap.”
 
As we see the last leg of winter through, there is still time to make this recipe at home before warmer weather presents itself.     Ingredients: ·         1kg maize meal ·         1kg beef chuck cut into pieces ·         ½ cup flour ·         1 teaspoon salt ·         ½ teaspoon black pepper ·         ¼ cup olive oil ·         1 onion, diced ·         2 cloves of garlic, finely chopped ·         340ml Castle Milk Stout ·         3 cups beef stock ·         50g tomato paste ·         2 tablespoons brown sugar ·         1 teaspoon dried thyme ·         1 teaspoon paprika ·         1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce ·         1 bay leaf ·         4 medium potatoes, cut into bite-sized chunks ·         4 large carrots, peeled and sliced ·         Fresh parsley, chopped for garnishing Method: ·         Mix together flour, salt and pepper in a large bowl, add beef chuck pieces and lightly coat with the flour mixture. ·         Heat the oil in a large pot (cast iron if you have) over medium high heat and in small batches, brown meat on all sides, remove from pan and set aside. ·         Add the onion to the pan and cook until golden (about 5 minutes). ·         Add garlic and cook for a further 2 minutes, then add the browned beef chuck back to the pan and add the remainder of the flour mixture. ·         Cook while stirring until flour mixture is mixed through. ·         Add in the Castle Milk Stout, beef stock, tomato paste, brown sugar, thyme, paprika, Worcestershire sauce and bay leaf, stir well to combine and cover pot with lid. ·         Simmer over a medium heat for about 2 hours or until the meat is tender. ·         Add in the carrots and potatoes and cook for another 1 hour, until vegetables are tender. ·         Cook maize meal according to package instructions, and serve stew and pap together with a sprinkling of fresh parsley.