Knysna - The devastating Knysna and Plettenberg Bay fire disasters in June, which destroyed hundreds of properties, claimed seven lives and burnt through thousands of hectares, were as a result of human activity. This was further fanned by strong winds and fuelled by drought, topography, heavy fuel – vegetation – and berg winds, according to the findings of the official forensic investigation into the cause and origin of the fires. Knysna fire chief Clinton Manual, who conducted the investigation, released a report on his findings at the town’s council chambers on Monday. Manual, who has been involved in a number of similar high-profile investigations over the past 25 years, said that his investigation was based on science and that he found clear indications that both blazes - which broke out in the Elandskraal area outside Knysna and Kruisfontein outside Plett on June 7 this year - were as a result of man-made fires. Manual said that during his investigation he found clear indications that the Knysna fire had started after people had made fires. The evidence included pine cones - likely used as fire lighters - and stacked materials like planks. “The reason we say that the pine cones were used as firelighters is that there are no pine trees in the area we identified as the origin. It was definitely brought in,” Manual said. He said that there was an access road to the origin and other indications that humans had been in the area, including broken pottery, nails and other items. Manual said that the area he believed was the origin also had the traits of a typical wildfire which included a V-shape burn scare. It was consistent with the wind patterns on the day if one looked at the different directions the fire had taken. These fires claimed the lives of seven people, destroyed about 700 homes and other structures, burnt through between 10 000 and 15 000 ha, and saw about 5 000 evacuations. Manual said the fire which started in Kruisfontein and led to the devastation in Plettenberg Bay was also likely man-made as they found evidence of a homeless person living in the area. The Elandskraal fire however originated on a private property and Manual said that his report would be handed over to local police who would investigate the matter further. Knysna municipal manager Kam Chetty, who was part of the briefing, said that they had also made estimations in terms of the monetary value of the losses. He said that personal losses, in terms of properties, was estimated to be about R5-billion. He added that infrastructure damage was estimated short of R500-million. African News Agency