The committee has been charged with probing a lavish birthday party thrown for Human Settlements MEC and acting DA provincial leader Bonginkosi Madikizela and whether his acceptance of a R3 000 birthday cake, which he failed to declare, breached ethical guidelines. Earlier this week, the chairperson of the legislature’s conduct committee, Lennit Max, resigned suddenly. This followed the resignation of registrar of members’ interests Romeo Maasdorp, whose job was advertised last week. The ANC said proper procedure had not been followed in advertising a replacement for Maasdorp, and this was evidence of interference into the work of the legislature by the DA. ANC Western Cape leader of the opposition Khaya Magaxa said: “The ANC wants to get to the bottom of this scandal. It is clear from legislature records that Madikizela and (his partner Health MEC Nomafrench) Mbombo did not declare these benefits as required. That feeds speculation that something unbecoming took place, and warranted the conduct committee to investigate the matter as mandated in legislation. “The Western Cape code of conduct act is clear that all members must declare their interests. Both MECs must account. DA Premier Helen Zille must also come clean as both are in her hand-picked inner circle,” said Magaxa. The ANC had also complained to the public protector over the gift to Madikizela. The Western Cape legislature’s chief whip, Mark Wiley, said accusations of interference by the ANC were baseless. “We can categorically state that no one was put under any pressure to resign. Should any member wish to resign from being a chairperson, as a member of the house or from the party, it is their prerogative and right.” There was no cover-up; instead there “was a set of events which were well known”, Wiley said. “Pierre Uys knew the acting registrar was going to be replaced by a professional, independent registrar,” Wiley added. Speaker Sharna Fernandez was concerned because it seemed ANC members were playing to the gallery. Max said Wiley knew exactly why he had resigned but would not make this public, and that he preferred to raise the issues within the DA’s legislature caucus.