The KZN Department of Transport, Community Safety and Liaison confirmed the crash occurred at about 10am after the driver of a minibus, overloaded with 26 congregants who were travelling to church, lost control of the vehicle, resulting in it rolling several times until it landed on an embankment, underneath a river bridge. The minibus was certified to carry 16 passengers. The death toll began at 17 on Sunday and by yesterday had risen to 20. The department met with community members to sympathise with and help them make applications to the Road Accident Fund, along with other paperwork. Sibusiso Gumbi, the head of department, said the intention of the meeting had been twofold. “One was for us to convey our condolences. We also know that when you lose your loved one, you are never ready for the burden and processes that need to be implemented. We wanted to help them be in a position to bury their loved ones with some dignity.” He said the people affected had a close and loving relationship with God. “Because of their faith, they are trying to accept what has happened. It was the way their loved ones were meant to be called.” For Dumisani Ndlovu - who lost his niece Mbali, his sister Fikile and his sister-in-law Nokuthula Nonjabulo in the accident - the loss of his loved ones is still difficult to digest. “When I heard the news, I just didn’t believe it. I’m still struggling.” He said that many people were concerned about the driver, and what his role had been in the crash but, for him, it didn’t matter. “Jesus knows what happened, so I leave the justice to him. It (an arrest) won’t bring my family back.” Nomthandazo Ngcamu - who lost four family members including her father Fano, her brother Siyabonga and her two sisters Zodwa and Zanele - said at the meeting she held “no grudges”. She said the tragedy had been part of “God’s plan”. Noxolo Mtolo lost her mother Ngipheni and sister Jabu Ngidi in the crash. She said their family was religious and often went to church together. Zion kwaNkonyane church pastor Senzo Mncube said the incident had “shocked and shaken” him. “I lost 14 of my congregants. You never expect something like this, on this scale. Even though God is with us, it is very painful and devastating.” Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbhele said the driver had been seriously injured and was in hospital.