A total of 89 201 cases were registered in the UK between January and June - more than 500 every day and a rise of 5% on the same period a year earlier. The number of crimes being reported is now at record levels as criminals exploit new technology to steal victims’ identities. Figures show 83% of identity fraud cases now take place online. The new data, released by fraud prevention body Cifas, prompted experts to warn that criminals are “relentlessly” targeting individuals and businesses. Cifas chief executive, Simon Dukes, said: “We have seen identity fraud attempts increase year on year, now reaching epidemic levels. These frauds are taking place almost exclusively online. "The vast amounts of personal data that is available either online or through data breaches is only making it easier for the fraudster. “Criminals are relentlessly targeting consumers and businesses and we must all be alert to the threat and do more to protect personal information. "Smaller and medium-sized businesses in particular must focus on educating staff on good cyber security behaviours and raise awareness of the social engineering techniques employed by fraudsters. To rely solely on new fraud prevention technology is not enough.” Criminals use their victims’ identities to apply for loans, insurance, phone contracts and a range of products online. Some stolen identities are sold to others via the dark web. Internet crimes have risen while the number of frauds being attempted on bank accounts and plastic cards has fallen. Victims often do not realise they have been targeted until noticing a payment on a bank statement or receiving a letter from a company they have never dealt with. Those aged between 31 and 50 are most likely to fall victim to scams, with this age group making up almost half of all identity fraud cases. Criminals use a variety of methods to take someone’s identity, including stealing their post, hacking their computer or e-mail accounts and using data available on social media. Others use “phishing” e-mails and phone calls in which they pretend to be from a trusted authority such as a bank or the police in an attempt to trick unsuspecting victims into handing over personal information.