There is an animal-free circus show in the big top. The Story of the Moon (performances Wednesday to Sunday) is geared for children and families. The big top is surrounded by a fairground - consisting of carnival rides (Ferris wheel - the works); food trucks/tents and bars; children’s activities (such a bungee trampolining and face painting). The mastermind behind The Fantastic Grifizzi Brothers is Richard Griffin - the creator of Madame Zingara Theatre of Dreams, which enthralled audiences with its mirrored tent and cirque acts. Previous Zingara ventures were pitched as adult entertainment, but The Fantastic Grifizzi Brothers is a concept that has been conceived to accommodate all ages. Griffin - who is the father of young children -has conjured up fantasy and warmth in a safe, but very creative and quirky, landscape. The show is for the small fry, but there is music for adults in the evenings and on weekends. The Story of the Moon is directed by Marc Colli and Christine Chapman. Lilian Khumalo is the MC, or Mama Circus, and together with singer Carmen Maarmen (the fairy of the circus), they narrate the story of the moon. The charismatic Rory Avenstrup performs as the moon, which is seeking happiness. There is clowning, acrobatics, drumming, contortion, slapstick comedy and a quick change act. There are some aerial acts, but no hard-core flying trapeze to scare the children. It is gentle. The clown sprays the crowd with what looks like water. You brace yourself to get drenched, but instead pieces of paper flutter through the tent. There are clever visual gags and moments of laugh-out-loud mirth. It feels as if one has wandered into a circus/carnival in a village in the middle of somewhere. It’s not just about seeing a circus, but also about the experience of being immersed in a fantasy world. Tickets for the show are R120 for children and R160 for adults (unreserved; tent seats 220). The Zingara tent concept was presented as a dinner-theatre experience. The Fantastic Grifizzi Brothers differs from that concept. Tickets to The Story of the Moon do not include a meal. Food and drink is extra, but it makes it an affordable outing as one is not committed to paying an inclusive price for both. There are six restaurants and five bars; live music on weekends -with DJs and hip live acts. Regarding the latter, we must mention The Barber’s Tent - a wooden mirrored tent that is kitted out with a bar. We ate in the double decker Bohemian Bus - an old school bus that was purchased in Johannesburg and given a dazzling makeover. The interior has been embellished with patterns and images, and the space is filled with memorabilia, objects and books. Diners eat on the top deck and the kitchen is on the lower level. We had butternut soup (R40), butternut gnocchi and seriously amazing falafel burgers. It was aromatic knock-out fantastic - signature Richard Griffin gourmet food of dreams. Food may change according to availability of ingredients. Dishes on the BoHo Bus menu range from R40-R75. Other food outlets on the circus site: Khumalo’s Meat House and Tavern Braai Experience, and the Fish Shack and Café. Halal and vegetarian options available. Just ask. *  The Fantastic Grifizzi Brothers - times and prices: The Story of the Moon is presented on Wednesdays at 7pm; Thursdays at 7pm; Fridays at 4pm and 7pm. On Saturdays and Sunday: noon, 4pm and 7pm. Tickets cost R120 for children and R160 for adults. Book for other performances, online www.thegrifizzibrothers.com or call the box office at 071 400 2250. Show times are subject to change, so check with the box office. Advance bookings advised. Carnival rides are R20-R60; R40 for bungee trampoline (only children aged 3 to 12, for five minutes) and R30 for face painting. For group bookings and party deals for the Moon show, call the box office. If you don’t want to see the show but want to enter the fairgrounds - to eat and listen to the music - a grounds-pass costs R30. Follow The Grifizzi Brothers on Facebook via www.facebook.com/grifizzibrothers/ and on Instagram via @grifizzibrothers #FantasticGrifizziBrothers From Wednesday to Friday, the grounds are open from 2pm, and from 10am on Saturday and Sunday. On Mondays and Tuesdays there is no show, and the site is closed.