Five unidentified men stormed the supermarket and held staff at gunpoint before they made off with an undisclosed amount of cash, which employees said was for social grant payments. The robbery occurred shortly after the store opened. Within minutes the robbers were gone. The incident came a day after a pedestrian was caught in the crossfire between security guards and robbers who exchanged gunfire during a cash-in-transit robbery in Paarl on Tuesday. Two security guards were wounded. During a visit to the centre yesterday, shaken employees who were on their lunch break  told the Cape Times they had been left traumatised by the incident. They spoke on condition of anonymity. “We were told that if anyone goes home, they will be dismissed. How can you say that? That was when everyone ran back to work,” said an employee. She said there were three robbers in the store. Another employee said: “All they care about is money, not our lives. The robbery happened at about 9.05am and they took the Sassa (South Africa Social Security Agency) money. “I was just running. They could have just closed the store for one day; only for one day and we would be back the following day, but they could not do that and I do not know why. They do not care about us,” she said. Approached for comment, Shoprite said the store reopened shortly after lunch, once police gave them clearance to do so and staff were given a choice whether they wanted to work or not. “The supermarket supported staff of its Charlesville branch with counselling following a robbery at the store shortly after opening. Trauma counsellors will continue to counsel and provide support for those who require it. “Staff involved in the robbery elected to continue working after counselling and remaining off duty for a few hours, with the exception of one staff member who chose to go home. “The supermarket chain deplores incidents of violence in its communities that prevent ordinary citizens from conducting their normal business in public places and deprives them of their right to safety. “Further information may be obtained from the SAPS who are investigating the incident,” said Shoprite. Police spokesperson Andre Traut said: “At 9.06am at a chain retail store in a mall in Charlesville five suspects entered the premises and threatened workers with firearms demanding the cash out of their drawers. “The suspects fled with an undisclosed amount of cash and are yet to be arrested.”