Let me state at the outset… the Lions are a quality team and play a great, exciting brand of rugby. That is not the focus of my e-mails. It’s about something more important than merely playing great rugby and winning matches. Something very important to the people, which is real transformation and teams that are truly representative. To be honest I was very disappointed after reading your ("Wear your Leeus jersey", Cape Times, August 4) and Jacques van der Westhuyzen’s ("Go young Lions") glowing reviews of the Lions but with absolutely no reference to the fact that players of colour are so poorly represented in the team. The e-mail that I sent to you on Wednesday, kindly requested that you consider dealing with the transformation issue in Lions rugby… but my request clearly fell on deaf ears. It appears as if the Cape Times rugby journalists are not concerned about the fact that the Lions have an all-white pack of forwards, with only three players of colour in the starting line-up. The Lions are sending a message to our nation that very few black players in their region are good enough to make their Super Rugby team. I wonder what the reactions would be if this same team is selected for the Boks (which is probably what most rugby writers will be saying if the Lions beat the Crusaders), when the Rugby Championship kicks off on August 19? Believe me, there will be a national outcry from the more caring, clear thinking, patriotic section of the rugby public. Our interest in and appreciation of local rugby should be much deeper than watching a near-all white team play good rugby. A responsible rugby journalist should not shy away from these important matters. Reference is made to the great “culture” in the Lions set-up. Well, maybe you should give a balanced and more accurate review of that “culture”. Extremely disappointed. Mark Volmink Plumstead Dear Mark Thank you for your interest and feedback. The Lions reached the Super Rugby final for two years in a row and I am sure you will agree it is a notable achievement in one of the toughest sporting competitions in the world. But they must certainly be held to accountable for the fact they fielded three black players in the final and regularly throughout the season – Elton Jantjies, Lionel Mapoe and Courtnall Skosan. My sports editor, Ian Smit, and myself have regularly written about the slow pace of transformation and what we perceive to be lingering prejudices in South African rugby, not only at the Lions, but all levels of the game. Jacques van der Westhuyzen, who covers the Lions for Independent Media, has also taken a critical look at transformation in the Lions set-up and will do so again this week. I hope you will continue to follow my rugby coverage. Best regards, Wynona Louw Hi Wynona Your reply is appreciated. It is pleasing to note that unions which are not transforming will be exposed. Rest assured, I will most certainly be following your coverage with great interest.