The UDM has said it would challenge his removal in court after the DA refused to accede to their demand to rescind the decision. Bobani, who was removed during a chaotic council meeting in Port Elizabeth on Thursday, was accused of undermining the DA-led coalition by voting with the ANC. Bobani was ousted by 60 votes from the DA, ACDP, Cope and the Patriotic Alliance. The ANC and the EFF walked out of the council chambers as voting on the no-confidence motion was in progress. UDM president Bantu Holomisa threatened that they would go to court today to challenge the procedure used to remove Bobani if the DA  did not reverse it. Yesterday Bobani was adamant he was still in his job. “I’m going to work on Monday. I’m still the deputy executive mayor, there is nothing stopping me. Nothing has changed,” he told Independent Media, before referring further questions to Holomisa, who couldn’t  be reached for comment. DA  executive mayor Athol Trollip contradicted Bobani, saying he was no longer the deputy. “His (municipal) motorcar has been taken back and his salary has been stopped. He is no longer deputy mayor. He has been told to vacate his office by Monday”. Trollip said he would not “pre-empt what steps would be taken” today should Bobani make good on his intentions to show up at work. He said DA  leader Mmusi Maimane had written to Holomisa on Friday, telling him that the council decision to remove Bobani would not be reversed. Holomisa had threatened to pull out of the coalition if the decision was not rescinded. But Trollip dared the UDM leader. “If he wants to pull out of the coalition, he must pull out of the coalition.” The DA had spent eight months trying to get Holomisa to “do something about their coalition partner who has voted against the coalition since January”. It emerged yesterday that it was unlikely that the EFF would withdraw their support for the DA in big metros, such as Joburg and Tshwane, although they were unhappy with the situation in Nelson Mandela Bay. The party lashed out at what they termed “pure bullying by the DA” for removing Bobani. “As a result of this behaviour in Nelson Mandela, the EFF will not be voting with the DA on any issue in Nelson Mandela Metro until they radically change their attitude towards other coalition partners belonging to smaller parties. “Although the EFF is not in any coalition or co-operation with the DA, we view their behaviour in Nelson Mandela Metro as a threat to coalition politics that can remove the corrupt ANC out of power even in the future. “Above all, we warn them that their behaviour in Nelson Mandela will affect all other municipalities where they rely on opposition parties in order to govern; in particular in Tshwane and Joburg,” said EFF spokesperson Mbuyiseni Ndlozi said. Cope president Mosiuoa “Terror” Lekota said they would not take action against their councillor and mayoral council member for sport, recreation, arts and culture, Siyasanga Sijadu, for voting for Bobani’s ouster. “We are going to do nothing of the sort. She (Sijadu) is the one who took the oath when the council was constituted. She is guided by the conscience of Cope,” said Lekota.  luyolo.mkentane@inl.co.za 