Forensic experts and officials from the Council for Geoscience are investigating the incident. The bridge was built in 1978 but has been decommissioned for several years. Eldridge Kgaswane of the Council for Geoscience said a tremor of two or less on the Richter scale in the region yesterday could not have caused the collapse. He said the bridge was on the Central Rand where there had been mining activity many years ago. “Water fills these cavities over the years and we sometimes have fluid-induced water movements which cause the tremors,” Kgaswane said. The South African National Roads Agency (Sanral) said the bridge was "regularly inspected in terms of 
Sanral’s bridge management system". Five people were injured, one critically, when the overhead pedestrian bridge collapsed onto passing cars. William Ntladi, spokesperson for the City of 
Ekurhuleni's emergency services, said tow-trucks, metro police and engineers from Sanral and the Department of Labour responded to the incident. “The heavy-duty trucks spent the day and most of the night towing damaged vehicles and trucks away. Clean-up of the damaged concrete has started and will continue through the night,” he said. Ward councillor Gill Humphreys said the bridge had been "stripped of nuts and bolts and all steel reinforcing" following its decommission. “We are questioning why Sanral did nothing to ensure the safety of the bridge, as this almost certainly caused the collapse,” Humphreys 
said. Gauteng Premier David Makhura wished those injured a speedy recovery. MEC for Roads and Transport Ismail Vadi assessed the damage on site. Vadi said the freeway between the Geldenhuys interchange and Van Buuren Road would be closed until further notice. “Our thoughts and prayers are with those in hospital. I shudder to think what would have happened if this occurred during peak-hour traffic,” said Vadi. In October 2015, a pedestrian bridge in Grayston Drive, which had been under construction and which was expected to link Alexandra to Sandton, collapsed, killing two and injuring 19. The Department of Labour has not concluded its 
investigation. The department said it has experienced difficulties in organising a joint meeting of all the parties involved.