A student at Walter Sisulu University (WSU) in the Eastern Cape will have to pay back a portion of the R14.1 million mysteriously deposited into her account. The student is believed to have spent about R818 000 of the multimillion-rand windfall she received as part of her monthly National Student Financial Aid Scheme (NSFAS) allocation. Intellimali, the service provider hired by the university to pay students, was supposed to deposit R1 410 into her account but instead put in extra zeroes, making her an instant millionaire. NSFAS gives institutions their allocated funds every year, and it’s their responsibility to distribute the funds. WSU has appointed Intellimali to assist with distributing the funds for it. And this is where the error occurred. Now, it seems the young woman will have to face consequences for spending the money. A lawyer, Robert Xaba, said she was wrong to spend the money as it did not belong to her. “Now it will be her word against their word that she went to them when the error occurred, but they did nothing… Either way, she was not supposed to spend money that was not hers. She was not entitled to it,” Xaba pointed out. In a statement, Intellimali chief executive Michael Ansell said they discovered the loading error at the beginning of the month that the young woman received the incorrect funds in June. When Intellimali received a batch of food allowances from WSU for 3 500 students – each with an allocation of R1 400 – it processed them incorrectly and paid one student millions. Ansell said the company took “full administrative and financial responsibility for the error”. But they are not letting the student get away with it. Instead, Ansell said they are in discussions with NSFAS to see what appropriate action should be taken against her. In a statement, NSFAS said: “When a mistake occurs in these processes, it is in the hands of the university, and the university will apply the necessary corrective measures.” The student fund said they expected an official report from the university about what happened. University spokesperson Yonela Tukwayo confirmed the mistake, but estimated that the student had spent about R500 000 of the money.