Despite all that talk of not having one foot on the plane, that’s exactly where the minds of the South African players seemed to be on day four of the fourth and final Test against England at Old Trafford yesterday. Except for a two-hour period when Faf du Plessis and Hashim Amla were together between lunch and tea, SA showed little stomach for this fight – it was a pathetic capitulation. It has been – the second Test at Trent Bridge aside – a very poor series for SA and shows that the cracks which had been papered over in Australia, New Zealand and against Sri Lanka now require proper fixing. Dean Elgar needs a new opening partner. There needs to be some clarity over the middle order – who plays where – and Vernon Philander’s fitness needs to be sorted out so that he can extend his career and not just play half a series at full tilt. AB de Villiers, Morne Morkel and perhaps even JP Duminy need some clarity to be provided over their futures, and of course the big question mark relates to the new coach – who will have a hell of a lot of on his plate when he steps into the job, hopefully later this month. In terms of this Test series, SA, with the exception of Quinton de Kock’s first innings at Trent Bridge, never dominated England’s bowling. It always felt like they were too timid to take on an admittedly Stuart Hess strong England attack. While Heino Kuhn’s selection was justified given his performances in domestic cricket and then for the SA A side who toured England in May, he was ultimately out of his depth. Hashim Amla lacks the consistency of years passed, flickering only briefly in this series. And while it’s important that he remains while this team is still in transition, he needs to find the kind of form that made him the world’s best batsman in 2012. And then the likes of captain Faf du Plessis, Temba Bavuma and De Kock now need to to step to the fore and score more heavily, and in the case of Du Plessis and Bavuma adding a tempo that puts pressure on the opposition bowlers. The bowlers were remarkably consistent over the course of the series – they had themselves to blame for the no-balls at Lord’s, but there was little they could do about dropped catches at Old Trafford. They would also be right to question their captain’s tactics on the second morning of the final Test when Jonny Bairstow was allowed to take control of the match. Morkel was gutsy throughout, claiming 19 wickets, while there was not enough of Philander in conditions that suited him. There are concerns about his mindset, and the new coach will have to add that to the list of areas that require fixing. Keshav Maharaj has come in leaps and bounds in this series and has quickly established himself as a vital member of the squad, providing control while his skill and guile has made him a wicket-taking threat as well.