The Police Ministry on Wednesday confirmed Zimbabwean First Lady Grace Mugabe, wanted in connection with the assault of a young woman in Johannesburg at the weekend, was still in the country and her government was attempting to invoke diplomatic immunity. Mugabe was meant to hand herself over to police for a warning statement on Tuesday after arrangements were made with her lawyers. "The	suspect's lawyers and	her	government	representatives	made	verbal	representations	to	SAPS investigators	that	the	suspect	wished to	invoke	diplomatic immunity	cover	and	thus	she	elected to	change her	mind	about	the	warning	statement. "Subsequently,	the	government	of	Zimbabwe	has dispatched	a	diplomatic	note	verbale to	the Department	of	International Relations	and Co-operation	invoking	said	diplomatic	Immunity	cover,"  a statement from the ministry said. "The	suspect	remains	in	South	Africa	and	has	not	departed	the	Republic. We	are	advised	her	itinerary includes, amongst	private matters, her attendance	and participation	at the scheduled	SADC	heads	of	states/governments	summit	and	bi-lateral	diplomatic	meetings	already	under way	in Pretoria." The statement said discussion's with her lawyers and the Zimbabwean High Commission would continue to ensure Mugabe "is processed	through	the legal system". READ MORE: Cops not buying diplomatic immunity excuse from #GraceMugabe Earlier on Wednesday, acting national police commissioner Lesetja Mothiba told a parliamentary committee that police, together with National Prosecuting Authority boss Shaun Abrahams, had decided they would go ahead with charging her despite her pleas for diplomatic immunity cover. “Our position was that she must go to court. The whole day yesterday (Tuesday) we were waiting for her… We were expecting a statement from her,” said Mothiba. President Robert Mugabe’s wife allegedly attacked a young woman with an extension cord after finding her with her two sons in Sandton. The young woman suffered head injuries and bruises on her body. The Zimbabwe first lady was in South Africa apparently to seek medical attention. African News Agency