Atul Gupta says his family is doing an ethical job and has denied the numerous allegations of corruption that have been levelled against them. 
 
Gupta said Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa had been misinformed about the Gupta family allegedly squandering public funds to spend on a relative's lavish wedding. 
 
That wedding took place in 2013, in Sun City, and the Free State provincial government has been accused of coughing up millions to help pay for it. 
 
"The deputy has been misinformed about this and I am happy to co-operate with any credible probe. I am happy to give any information he wants to prove authenticity," said Gupta. 
 
He was being interviewed on BBC Radio 4. 
 
The Guptas have become synonymous with corrupt activities, with opposition political parties and even some ANC members calling for them to be prosecuted for corruption allegations.  
 
They have been accused of influencing the hiring and firing of ministers through their close relationship with President Jacob Zuma. The family's dealings with government officials and state-owned enterprise executives have also been revealed following the leaking of thousands of the family's emails. 
 
Gupta branded his family as victims as he questioned the authenticity of the State of Capture report - released by the Public Protector in 2016. 
 
The real "state capture" was white monopoly capital, said Gupta. 
 
"There is real state capture they are not looking into it. White monopoly capital does not want us to do business in this country. They are effecting their oligopoly in this country," said Gupta. 
 
"This report is inconclusive and there are no findings in there. 8.9% of our total revenue comes from government."
 
He also denied the R600 million bride that former deputy finance minister Mcebisi Jonas accused the family of offering him if he agreed to take up the post of finance minister – after Nhlanhla Nene was fired.
 
When questioned why the family had not taken legal action against those its accuses of purporting false information, he said he didn't not have time as his company's workers were looking to his family for an income and he couldn’t abandon them. 
 
Gupta said he planned to stay in the country forever and bragged that he was an example of "financial liberation". Politics Hub