Cape Town - The mother of murdered toddler Jeremiah Ruiters is preparing to give birth behind bars in just three weeks.
Abigail Ruiters, 30, is currently being kept at the hospital section of Pollsmoor prison and is not well, according to her family. Last week, Ruiters’ lawyer Advocate IIlona Edwards informed the Cape Town Magistrates’ Court that her client was due to give birth to her fourth child on Saturday 23 September. Ruiters is facing a charge of child neglect, while her boyfriend, Ameerudien Peters, 26, is facing a charge of murder and rape. Peters, of Mitchells Plain, is the biological father of the unborn baby and it will reportedly be his firstborn child. Bail for both of accused have been opposed. In court on Friday, the magistrate allowed a heavily pregnant Ruiters to sit as she appeared in discomfort. The matter was postponed to 10 October for a formal bail application. This means the mother will be in jail when she is due to give birth. In June, Peters took Jeremiah to the Kensington Clinic, where he was declared dead on arrival. The 18-month-old had been beaten, stabbed and raped.  Ruiters and Peters were living together for a year in a backyard in Factreton. The mother had left Jeremiah in the care of Peters, an alleged drug addict, while she went to work. On Tuesday, Ruiters’ father, Pastor Ronald Ruiters, told the Daily Voice the family was fighting to get his daughter out of prison for the birth. “She is not well and is in the hospital section at Pollsmoor. I cannot say much about the process (to get her out) as we are trying other avenues, hoping she won’t be giving birth behind bars.” The pastor says his daughter will have to decide whether to keep the baby in jail or let her relatives take care of it.  “We have accepted this baby. As far as I know, this will be Ameer’s first baby. Abigail as the mother has to make a decision on what she wants, if this baby will be born behind bars." “The most important thing is that this baby will need the mother, that is critical especially for breast milk and the bond between mother and child,” he says. Ruiters says he has already forgiven Peters for allegedly raping and killing his youngest grandchild. “I am not cross at Ameer, I am giving him peace, it is between him and God,” the holy man says. “I think as a Christian, I need to forgive him and set him free.” Daily Voice