Icasa bosses told Parliament on Wednesday the market inquiry into data costs would help to reduce the price. The telecoms regulator was backed by MPs who said the high costs were unjustifiable and impacted negatively on the poor. Icasa was in Parliament to brief the select committee on communications and public enterprises on data costs. Economic Development Minister Ebrahim Patel has set up an inquiry by the Competition Commission to investigate high data costs. The ministers of communications, trade and industry, and telecommunications and postal services had also expressed concern about the high data costs. They backed the inquiry by the competition authorities. Icasa acting chairperson Rubben Mohlaloga said there was no doubt that data prices must come down. Mohlaloga said the authority supported consumers who were calling for the reduction of data prices. South Africa’s data costs were high compared to its neighbouring countries. “If you look at the international benchmarks, domestically there is this colloquial that data must fall,” said Mohlaloga. He said prices must come down significantly. However, he warned that when prices are reduced, the industry must be able to survive. “It (data) must fall to the extent that the industry is sustainable. The cost must go down significantly,” he said. Icasa acting chief executive Willington Ngwepe said the Competition Commission was already investigating if there was collusion in the industry. This followed a question from MPs if there was collusion by the cellphone companies in data prices. Ngwepe said the investigation by the Competition Commission would be able to determine that. He said this was stated by Minister of Telecommunications and Postal Services Siyabonga Cwele during his budget speech this year. Patel also emphasised this point in his own budget speech. “Parallel to that there is a process by Icasa on the review of broadband,” said Ngwepe. The chairperson of the select committee, Ellen Prins, said they wanted to bring in the mobile operators to answer on this charge. She said this was a sensitive matter and they wanted to hear all sides. “I think there is a need for us to meet with the service providers to give their side of the story (and) why we need (them) to reduce the cost of data,” said Prins. The DA’s Jacques Julius said the cost of data in South Africa was high compared to other countries. Olifile Sefako of the ANC also questioned high data costs, saying the poor were the biggest losers. He said the cost of data made it difficult for poor people to communicate. He called on consumer activists to join the committee when they meet with the mobile operators. The issue of high data costs was first raised last year and this led to the intervention by Parliament. Cabinet ministers also promised to act on the matter, which eventually led to the probe by the Competition Commission. It was not clear how soon the commission would conclude its investigation. But Parliament also said it wanted to get to the bottom of the matter. The committee said it would invite Cell C, Vodacom and MTN to answer on the charge of high data costs.