A fire was started in an office in the multi-purpose hall. According to Student Representative Council chairperson (SRC), Ayakha Magxotwa, the protest  was over a lack of student accommodation. Magxotwa said they shut down the university because it was the only way for their voices to be heard. “We have tried to engage with the university for two weeks on end with no conclusion. "Today, about 200 students are in need of accommodation and these are only the ones that have come forward,” he said. Magxotwa said they had identified buildings that would house students that would be paid by their bursaries and students loans. However, the university needed to approve the buildings before students could take occupation. “We want the university to fast-track the process of approving private buildings for student accommodation,” he added. CPUT spokesperson Lauren Kansley said management and the acting vice-chancellor Chris Nhlapo had engagements with the student leadership on the issue of accommodation. “Student leaders initially claimed that 10 students were sleeping in our service learning unit and management immediately engaged with the residence department to assist where possible. "It is important to note that residence placements are granted on a number of checks being in place. Management has engaged in good faith with student leaders despite a continued flouting of agreements,” said Kansley. Kansley added that the university had about 9 124 beds and provided about 26% of its total student population in its residences. “The residence department has a tender process in which they have called for 'Expression of Interest' from interested parties to provide student accommodation which complies with all the requirements and standards. "Sourcing appropriate student accommodation remains an active concern of our residence department,” Kansley added. Police spokesperson Sinathi Joni said a docket of arson had been registered at Cape Town Central SAPS. No arrests had been made.