Classes at the Cape Town campus of the Cape Peninsula University of Technology (CPUT) were suspended yesterday after protesting students brought the university to a standstill.
 
Student representatives met the university management regarding the criminal charges against SRC chairperson Ayakha Magxotwa, demanding that the charges be dropped. 
 
Magxotwa has been accused by the university of harassing and intimidating the university’s staff. Surrounded by a mob of students at the campus’s amphitheatre, Magxotwa stood on one of the structures addressing his fellow students and the university’s management.
 
“Acting vice-chancellor Nhlapo is here, accompanied by Professor Louis Fourie and registrar Ntsababa, we want the charges to be dropped,” Magxotwa said.
 
He handed over a document to Nhlapo containing the charges of which he is being accused. “My charges are their (the students) charges. I will give you this booklet and then believe that your hands are off me,” Magxotwa said
 
Nhlapo appealed to students that the university could not afford another standstill, with examinations around the corner.
 
“All parties need to reconcile, we must find a solution as soon as possible and we really need to find a way forward,” Nhlapo said
 
University management later left, leaving the students angry and frustrated. Members of the SRC, who did not want to be named, said it is not a protest but a “time out” to support their chairperson, who is allegedly being victimised by university management. “The disciplinary meeting was postponed today, we want an answer. We’re fully behind our chairperson,” SRC members said.
 
Students who did not take part in the gathering expressed their disappointment at classes being interrupted.  
 
“I have been here since eight this morning. I had an online test today, it’s a day wasted,” a retail management student said. A second-year marketing student, who wants to remain anonymous, said police escorted them out of the building. “I don’t see the need for a standstill, I already failed this year. Today’s lecture was important,” the pupil said.
 
Nhlapho sent a note to staff that campus security had evacuated the administration building after a group of protesting students forced their way to the sixth floor. “During the chaos fire extinguishers were released and as a safety precaution staff were asked to leave their posts.
 
“We kindly request that only staff based in that building liaise directly with line managers about working from alternative posts, eg home or another work station. "Staff from other campuses are also asked to reschedule any meetings that may be taking place in the Cape Town administration building today. All other campuses are unaffected and work continues uninterrupted,” said Nhlapho.