Cape Town - Following Monday's #UniteBehind march on Parliament, there are yet more marches set to take place on Tuesday. Various roads will be closed, and MyCiTi routes will also be affected. The march coincides with a vote of no confidence in President Jacob Zuma - the tenth such motion to be tabled before the National Assembly. This time, however, the vote will be held via secret ballot, as announced by Speaker Baleka Mbete on Monday. "Temporary road closures will be in place in parts of the Cape Town CBD (Monday and Tuesday) to accommodate three gatherings which have been approved," the City of Cape Town said in a statement on Monday. "Permits have been issued for the following gatherings to take place: * The ANC Dullah Omar Region gathering on 8 August 2017. The group will march from the Grand Parade to Parliament via Darling Street, ending at the corner of Plein and Roeland Streets. They will assemble from 09:00, the march will commence at 13:30, and the group is to disperse by the time proceedings end at Parliament. * The Multi-Party Notice group gathering on 8 August 2017. The group will march from Keizersgracht to Parliament via Darling Street, Buitenkant Street, Glynne Street, and Vrede Street, ending at the corner of St John’s and Roeland Streets. They will assemble from 09:00, the march will commence at 10:00, and the group is to disperse by the time proceedings end at Parliament. "The South African Police Service and the City’s Traffic Service will manage temporary road closures to ensure the safety of participants and the general public. "For the gathering tomorrow, 8 August 2017, road closures will be in effect as follows from 09:00 until 19:00: * Roeland Street, between Buitenkant and Plein Streets
* Plein Street, between Spin and Roeland Streets
* St John’s Street, between Vrede and Roeland Streets
* Also on 8 August 2017, the MyCiTi buses on Routes 102 and 103 will be affected. The deviations can be found here. "Parking will be affected on the roads along the gathering route. "Despite careful management of the road closures, increased traffic congestion is anticipated around this area and commuters are encouraged to avoid the area during the gathering times if at all possible. "The South African Police Service is the lead agent with regard to special security arrangements on both days, with the City’s enforcement agencies playing a supporting role," the City said. Cape Argus