The discovery comes from new research on the bone microstructure of the dodo. Basic biological information has, until now, not been known for the dodo, an extinct flightless bird that was endemic to the island of Mauritius. While the dodo is an iconic symbol of a species that has gone extinct because of human activity - with humans and the dodo coexisting for over 300 years - very little is known about this bird. Palaeobiologists from UCT Dr Delphine Angst and Professor Anusuya Chinsamy-Turan, collaborated with the NHM scientists in the project to make interesting findings, based on an analysis of its bone histology. Histological evidence of moulting suggests that after summer had passed, moult began in the adults that had just bred. The timing of moult derived from bone histology is also corroborated by historical descriptions of the dodo by mariners. Angst said: “It has been extremely rewarding to have been able to spend time in Professor Chinsamy-Turan’s laboratory to learn about how the microscopic structure of bone allows interpretations about the biology of extinct animals. “Using this information, we were able to show that the dodo bred around August and that the chicks grew quickly to reach a robust size before the austral summer and cyclone season in Mauritius. “It is fascinating to see that our findings match the historical descriptions of the dodo made by 17th century sailors, who were among the few people to have seen this bird alive.” Chinsamy-Turan said it is sad that today the only information known about the life and times of the dodo is what can be deduced from its “fossil” bones. “We were absolutely delighted to have had the opportunity to work on the dodo. “Our results allowed us to work out some extraordinary information about the life history of this enigmatic extinct bird, such as when the females laid their eggs, and also when they moulted,” Chinsamy-Turan said. “Like the dodo there have been many other species that have become extinct because of human-induced activities. “It is my earnest hope that we will be better at conserving and protecting our planet's incredible biodiversity before they go the way of the dodo”. Dr Julian Hume, of the NHM, said all that remains of the dodo today is a handful of images, a few accounts, a unique head with soft tissue in Oxford and fossil bones. “Of these artefacts, it is only the study of the bone structure that is providing us with more precious information about the dodo's life history,” Hume said.