The ANC Youth League in the Dullah Omar region has called on the youth of Cape Town and South Africa to rally behind the ANC today and join the ANC march in defence of democracy. We urge the masses of our people into a motion of confidence in the ANC and its government, which has and continues to work tirelessly in building a better life for all. Our track record since 1994 speaks for itself and no government in the world has been able to do what we have done in improving the lives of our people in just two decades like we have done in South Africa. The ANCYL believes that the so-called motion of no confidence is cheap politicking and a frivolous coup d’état attempt by these bitter minority opposition parties that was rejected by the overwhelming majority of South African voters in the 2014 national elections. This current fifth democratically elected ANC-led government was voted into office by more than  11.4 million South Africans and given a 62.5% popular mandate to govern our country until the next elections in 2019. The ANCYL in the Dullah Omar region calls on young people to rally behind the ANC if they want to see the realisation of free education, which will be implemented in January 2018; land expropriation without compensation; radical economic transformation to ensure our economy benefits all South Africans, Africans in particular and blacks in general; and the generational mission of united youth action for economic freedom in our lifetime, as it can be attained only by the ANC. It is only the ANC, which is working towards ensuring that all people of South Africa equally own, control and participate in the economy of this country, that will bring about the elimination of inequality, poverty and unemployment in our country. This frivolous motion of no confidence is not an attack only against President Jacob, but against our entire ANC, its government, the South African voters and our generational mission of attaining economic freedom in our lifetime. We vow that no 400-odd people in Parliament will be allowed to undermine the will of 11.4 million South African voters, and we are prepared to die in defence of our democracy. Any ANC MP who dreams of voting against the same ANC which put him/her in Parliament will be met by thousands of young people, and that is a promise we intend to keep. Jacobs is regional co-ordinator, Zenzile is regional convener and Luzuko Bashman is spokesperson of the ANC Youth League