Oliphant said she would  make a determination after investigating. Lilian Mkosi, 57, was attacked by her employer Brent Chad's dogs at his Monte Vista home while he was playing golf on July 29. She was finishing her shift and walking home when the dogs dragged her to the ground by biting her legs after which they went for her head and neck. She said the police and paramedics were able to help her only after a neighbour threw raw meat on the floor to distract the dogs. “This incident allegedly happened despite the domestic worker repeatedly reporting the imminent danger that these dogs were posing to her,” said the department's spokesperson, Sithembele Tshwete. Oliphant also reminded employers that the Occupational Health and Safety Act encourages employers to prevent and remove hazards in every workplace. The department will also institute a process to amend the Compensation for Occupational Diseases and Injuries Act (Coida) in order to ensure that domestic and casual workers are also covered in cases of occupational injuries and diseases. Mkosi said she plans to sue Chad and said his promise to pay for medical bills was not enough. “Brent is not saying how much he will pay for medical costs. It's not only medical costs but loss of income and loss of my blood as well. Since the attack I have not been bringing income and my children are starving. "I had two other jobs I was doing for other people and now I cannot do them,” said Mkosi. “I can't let this pass without him facing the consequences because I am the breadwinner for my family,” she said. She said she found it strange there are are no records of the incident at Goodwood police station even though police took Chad's statement and interviewed her. Mkosi said she was also unhappy she was discharged from Groote Schuur Hospital, six days after the attacks, although she was in pain. “My neighbour had to provide me with a walking stick as the hospital never gave me one or a wheelchair,” she said. “The hospital never gave any documentation or a J88 form to lay a criminal complaint with the police, so sad,” said Mkosi. Police spokesperson Frederick van Wyk said his office “has no record of this matter”. Mkosi’s daughter Pamela, 24, said Chad's silence on the matter shows that he does not want to compensate her mother. Pamela said the family was struggling to find a lawyer to assist them lodge a claim with the courts. Cape of Good Hope SPCA chief executive Allan Perrins said the pit bulls have been put down since the attack.