As of June 30, the Department of Correctional Service’s (DCS) official statistics showed that for the first time in more than a decade, Pollsmoor’s remand detention facility operated at 147.62% of its approved capacity, as a result of “sustained efforts” by the department and the broader criminal justice sector, said Sonke’s national prisons specialist Ariane Nevin. She said the efforts to address the matter included the relocation of sentenced inmates from Pollsmoor, Goodwood and Malmesbury correctional centres to make space for remand detainees. However, inmates were still not being provided with meals, according to the intervals prescribed by the Correctional Services Act, with inmates having to wait more than 14 hours between supper and breakfast the next morning, she said. “The high court also held that the government had failed to provide the inmates with adequate exercise, nutrition, ablution facilities and health care services, a constitutional obligation owed to all inmates, and ordered the government to formulate a comprehensive plan to address this.” Western Cape High Court Judge Vincent Saldanha had declared the conditions at the facility unconstitutional during his scathing judgment against the government in December 2016. He then directed government to develop and file a comprehensive plan, including time frames for its implementation, which addresses and will put an end to the deficiencies in the provision of exercise, nutrition, accommodation, ablution facilities and health care services for Pollsmoor inmates. Yesterday, DCS spokesperson Singabakho Nxumalo said sentenced offenders have been diverted to other centres in the province and the Northern Cape and Free State. He said all security vacancies have been filled, with 20 additional members appointed to bring stability. “Plans to appoint an additional doctor, strictly to service remand detainees have started. “Rather than focusing on the court order’s directives, the department has used this as an opportunity to close some the gaps in administration, such as proper record keeping and completion of registers in order to ensure that there is proper reliable records.” Nxumalo said there was progress in terms of physical exercise, adequate beds, hygiene and assault cases. “In addition, the number of pharmacists has been increased to two, plus a pharmacist assistant. “This move has tremendously reduced the turnaround time in terms of issuing medication from 48 hours to 24 hours. “The opening of a pharmacy in Goodwood Correctional Centre has also decreased the workload for the Pollsmoor pharmacy facility.”