The security company last week posted on its Facebook page: “While patrolling in Durmontè, Durbanville, Response Officer Vermeulen removed unwanted vagrants from the area and escorted them out, ensuring that they are out of the area.” But the initiative’s Dean Ramjoomia said the actions were in violation of the individuals' rights to free movement. “Simply our people (are) regarded as undesirable - potential criminals, bad for business ‘we assist you to get back to where you come from’. "So what you have is a co-ordinated response to keep persons who fit a particular profile, which is a black, poor ‘vagrant’ looking person, out of their areas. "It’s sickening” he said. However, the company’s sales and marketing manager, Gawie Venter, said the “vagrants” were scratching in the dustbins throwing out the contents and leaving them on the streets. “Our officers are called out by residents to assist in a suburb when they notice vagrants scratching in their dustbins making a mess. "Our officers would then approach the individual or groups and ask them to clean up after themselves. If the vagrants continue to make a mess we would ask them to rather move along, out off the suburb. "We would never stop any persons wanting to move freely through a suburb,” said Venter. He said they did not remove the individuals physically but asked them to leave. “The ‘loitering’ by-law  is still in effect. Our SAPS don't have the manpower or time to attend to this by-law. "Law enforcement officers are meant to assist with this transgression. If we’ve asked the vagrant or groups to rather leave the suburb and they don’t, still making a mess, we do call law enforcement to assist - but with little to no support from them. "Neighbourhood Watches are all following suit as part of a bigger crime-prevention plan,” he said. Safety and security Mayco member JP Smith said law enforcement cannot “remove” people or escort them anywhere but can intervene in the commission of a crime or by-law offence.  siyavuya.mzantsi@inl.co.za 