The ANC in the Western Cape is extremely concerned about the recent incidences of intolerance in the province and calls for the strongest possible action against the intolerant individuals, organisations or businesses. Last weekend, a group of Stellenbosch University students and a friend were verbally and physically assaulted when they were called “h******” and other racist epithets, and one of them was punched in the face. This week, a Stanford wedding venue refused to allow a same-sex couple to get married on their premises, citing a “policy” that prohibits it. The ANC condemns all forms of discrimination, as such abhorrent behaviour infringes on the rights of the affected and threatens the freedoms of all. The right to equality and to be treated with human dignity are guaranteed in the Bill of Rights, and such intolerant attitudes are in direct contrast to our national resolve to build a united, just and equal society. The fight for such basic rights and freedoms was not easy. The ANC led the struggle against apartheid and oppression. As a result of that commitment, the party will continue to defend the rights of all and speak out against all forms of intolerance. We encourage all victims of discrimination to make optimal use of the avenues available to them in the Promotion of Equality and Prevention of Unfair Discrimination Act 4 of 2000 and also to pursue criminal charges where necessary. Furthermore,the ANC applauds Stanford Tourism and Business for suspending the wedding venue’s membership and also call on other business associations to expel members who continue to have discriminatory policies in place. We need to build a more tolerant province and call on individuals, organisations and other businesses to report any business that continue to discriminate against anyone, to lay charges against them at the Equality Court and to boycott such business. Any form of discrimination will not be tolerated in a diverse province that can ill afford such intolerance. Faiez Jacobs Provincial secretary: ANC Western Cape