Timol’s family advocate Howard Varney SC was scathing of the initial inquest. He requested the court to recommend the investigation of criminal charges against the apartheid security police officers who gave “false evidence” under oath. Timol died when he fell from the 10th floor of the then John Vorster Square police station in 1971. His death was declared a suicide. During final arguments yesterday at the inquest into Timol’s death, State advocate Torie Pretorius told Judge Mothle the previous inquest had numerous inconsistencies. If the court took into consideration the testimonies of other detainees, such as Salim Essop, who was brutally tortured and assaulted, then the initial findings of no torture or assault were false, he argued. Allegations were made that Timol had suffered injuries in a brawl before police apprehended him at a roadblock while en route to Fordsburg from Coronationville in October 1971. Pretorius said: “The evidence confirms the detainees were assaulted. There can be no question about it. If you take the injuries on Timol’s body, this court can make a finding that he was indeed assaulted. “Details of sections of the SACP circular Inkululeko Freedom 2, advocating suicide in the case of apprehension by police, is to be regarded as a pure fabrication.” Also, statements that Timol opted to take his life when faced with possible life imprisonment were not fact, Pretorius said, but nothing more than unsubstantiated opinion by the police. Timol’s family have over the years rejected allegations of suicide, maintaining that he was tortured and eventually pushed or thrown from the torture room on the 10th floor of John Vorster Square. Pretorius also said there were numerous contradictions in the statement of former apartheid security branch sergeant Jan Rodrigues. “During his testimony he gave five different versions of what happened. He even added how senior officials wanted to make additions to his statement, which was yet another version,” he said. Varney shared Pretorius’s sentiments regarding Inkululeko Freedom 2, saying it was nothing more than the go-to document police doctored to bolster the suicide cover-up story. “Was it that difficult for prosecutors and magistrates to conduct a basic inquiry to get to the truth? We did so 46 years later and found something. One can only imagine what they would have found at the time of Timol's death,” Varney said. Defence advocate Stephanus Coetzee conceded that information that Timol was physically abused through routine torture and assault by the security police could not be argued with. But he questioned the seriousness of his injuries. Coetzee requested the court not to be drawn into making conclusions based on speculative evidence. “The court cannot simply ignore the conclusions of pathologists who inspected the body and witnessed the injuries first-hand 46 years ago. The latter have ventured into speculation, basing their testimonies on faded photographs at best.” The defence implored Judge Mothle that should Rodrigues’s testimony be dismissed, there would be no version of what happened to Timol. The judge said he had contentions with the officer’s presence at John Vorster Square as there had been no one to witness his presence there at the time. Judge Mothle will deliver his ruling at a later stage.