Community-based organisations (non-profit) are requested/encouraged to apply for funding from various organs of local government such as the Department of Social Development and grants in aid from sub councils. The objective is to financially assist these organisations and provide structures to deliver a service to the various communities in line with the department’s service plans. This is good, as approved organisations can render counter services right from grassroots level – services and programmes that communities so badly need to address the ever escalating social and other challenges. To this end, we hear of millions of rand budgeted for exactly that, to bring service delivery right to where it is needed most. Over the past days we have seen communities voicing their frustration with non-delivery of essential services and upliftment programmes. Just within the Parkwood Estate community, we have on record more than five registered non-profit organisations rendering a valuable service to the community, excluding the other structures and smaller groups that endeavour to do likewise. Most of the services rendered are those that the government departments are suppose to render as to their constitutional mandate. My question is: How many of these organisations and structures are funded by the government? How many of them who do actually apply year after year are approved? What are the reasons that these organisations cannot access the funds budgeted for that? Reasons mostly given are non-compliance with criteria/requirements. Such is not even known to these organisations. Applying for funding has become such a disheartening venture for these organisations that they just give up on applying, as the outcome is just another demoralising factor. If these departments, such as Social Development, are so serious about rending grassroots service to the community, why are these organisations not capacitated to a level where they actually can meet the set criteria and requirements? We have on record numerous requests for such (including picketing at the gates of the Wynberg district office of Social Development), but to date none have materialised. Pastor Paul Phillips Lotus River