Instead of being perceived as the competition, Dagada said there was an opportunity for partnerships. Dagada is based in Johannesburg, and owns two companies: NDA Logistics; and a fast-food franchise, Dags Braai Corner, under Foodz Holdings, which he started three 
years ago. In that time he can boast of a colourful background in presenting, leading debate teams, chairing committees and outreach programmes. He was part of Stanford University’s 350 exceptional entrepreneurs in 2017. He was chosen to represent South Africa in the TrepCamp this year in Silicon Valley. Earlier this year he was invited to a six-week entrepreneurial exchange programme in Canada, where he interacted with people from around the world. He was also nominated to represent South Africa at the One Young World International Summit in Zurich, Switzerland. While he spent time as a radio presenter he designed an anti-xenophobia campaign. Dagada said: “My ideas and concepts (for my logistics business) came about when I noticed a gap in the market”. “I have been in the business industry since I was 11. “I then had a formal business when I was 19 in my first year at university. I cleaned students’ flats. “Most of my funding came from Bitcoin and from what I made I grew my businesses.” Dagada employs 40 people at his two businesses, and his logistics company also rents cars to Uber drivers. “For a very long time the rest of the world has looked at Africa as a handout type of continent. “I think the time has changed where African entrepreneurs are starting to realise their potentials and are starting to realise their place in the global economy. “It is a matter of time with young entrepreneurs coming up and it will soon be a big change with even a chance to dominate in the global 
economy. “The plan was always to go international: to have a national and local business. My logistics business is international. It is unique - straight from university into business. “The whole process from watching my business grow has been a challenge but a learning curve. I believe in making a lot of money and using that money to do good. In order for one to do good you need money and one of the best ways to do good is to open a business. I learnt a lot from Silicon Valley - my next initiative is to help as many African entrepreneurs as I can,” Dagada said. He has written a book wherein he features dialogues with other entrepreneurs, which is expected to be released soon.  Lonwabo.marele@inl.co.za 