ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe has warned the party’s Ekurhuleni region not to use a public platform to push for punishment of one of the MPs suspected to have voted against President Jacob Zuma in Parliament. On Tuesday, the ANC’s Ekurhuleni regional executive committee bypassed its provincial body by asking Luthuli House to act against party member Mondli Gungubele, who is suspected of having supported the vote of no confidence against Zuma on August 8. The call by the ANC in Ekurhuleni came despite the fact that the provincial office- bearers (POBs) of the ANC had already acted on Gungubele following a call by Mantashe. Gauteng ANC secretary Hope Mankwana Papo issued a statement on August 1 saying they had warned Gungubele against making any comments on the vote of no confidence as well as his voting preference. “After affording comrade Gungubele an opportunity to explain himself, he was advised and requested to desist from making any further public pronouncements on the matter. "He accepted the advice of the POBs and made a commitment not to make any further comments on the matter. All the issues have to be dealt with through established internal organisational mechanisms,” Papo said. But the Ekurhuleni ANC were adamant that they would write a formal letter to the ANC headquarters, asking them to act against Gungubele. Ekurhuleni ANC deputy chairperson Robert Mashego, commenting on the outcome of its regional executive committee, said they distanced themselves from Gungubele. “The meeting also distanced itself from the shocking behaviour of one of its seasoned comrades, Mondli Gungubele, who in Parliament displayed high levels of intolerance towards principles of democratic centralism. "We, therefore, call on the national executive committee (NEC) to subject him to a disciplinary committee process for his unbecoming conduct,” said Mashego. Explaining its decision, Ekurhuleni ANC spokesperson Sonnyboy Masingi said they felt that Luthuli House had powers to deal with Gungubele because he made those comments while in Parliament. “The ANC NEC is responsible to charge him. We believe that the province is not competent to charge,” Masingi said. However, he said the ANC regional executive committee would formally communicate its request to Luthuli House before the end of the week. But Mantashe warned against going public on the matter. “ANC in Ekurhuleni should not communicate with us through a media conference,” he said yesterday. Gungubele – who is also Gauteng ANC disciplinary committee chairperson – was not available for comment. Gauteng ANC spokesperson Motalatale Modiba said they would not comment. They also did not want to comment on its regional structure’s support for Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma to replace Zuma in December.