CAPE TOWN - On the face of it, the Cape Cobras have nothing to play for. They have no chance of reaching the playoffs of the Momentum One-Day Cup regardless of Thursday’s result against the Titans at SuperSport Park, and have a host of senior players unavailable heading into the last match of the season. However, pride of performance is extremely important, especially for a group of young players hoping to leave their mark on the franchise scene. There is therefore no greater opportunity than to do it against a power-packed Titans side that contains none other than Proteas ODI skipper AB de Villiers. We pin-point four key areas the Cobras need to improve on, if they are to cause the upset of the season. Batting The Cobras have been too dependent on Richard Levi for far too long. The block-busting opener has provided the momentum in limited-overs cricket for years, often covering up deeper cracks within the batting unit. It has been no different this season, with Levi’s 410 runs at an average of 51.50 once again leading the team’s batting charts. But with Levi unavailable due to a groin injury, the Cobras will need others to lead from the front. Senior players like Dane Vilas and Andrew Puttick will have to shoulder the majority of the responsibility, but there is also an opportunity for youngsters such as Andrea Agathangelou, Zubayr Hamza and Jason Smith to start putting in big performances. Death bowling The Cobras had hoped the return of Dane Paterson from international duty in New Zealand halfway through the One-Day Cup would be the fillip they needed, but it has unfortunately not worked out that way. After being reduced to a net bowler for almost three weeks after playing in the one-off T20 international in Auckland, Paterson’s match-fitness suffered severely. He has struggled to find a consistent line or length ever since, and generally looks devoid of a solid game plan at the backend of the innings. Paterson was particularly poor in the defeats to the Dolphins (Paarl) and Warriors (Newlands), with the opposition having scant respect for his reputation. Taking wickets upfront Things would go a lot easier for the Cobras at the death if the opening bowlers were able to make significant inroads at the top. The last time the Cobras faced the Titans, they were put to the sword by openers Henry Davids (163) and Jonathan Vandiar (153) who shared a record partnership of 313 for the first wicket. It was not the only occasion this season that the bowling unit have come under pressure upfront, with the Warriors enjoying a 100-run plus start while the Knights also added over 200 for the second wicket last Sunday at Newlands. Such a platform allows the incoming batsmen to play without any pressure, allowing them the freedom to express themselves at the backend of the innings. The similarity between the members of the Cobras’ attack makes it easier for the opposition batsmen. Wayne Parnell and Beuran Hendricks’ left-arm variation has sorely been missed, but youngsters like Dayyaan Galiem need to step up now. Fielding The Cobras’ fielding has been littered with error and imprecision. They have put down numerous chances this season, missed run outs and stumpings and have generally been lacklustre in the field. The lack of athleticism of some senior players has been identified, but the infusion of youth at the latter end of the One-Day Cup should be a boost to the fielding efforts. But it's the catching that really needs to improve. Often missed chances have created momentum for the opposition when the Cobras could have seized the initiative. Coach Ashwell Prince, pictured, has said the hard yards have been done at training, but it’s all about confidence. Cape Times