Research conducted by the South African Medical Research Council’s (SAMRC) Environment and Health Research Unit found that the highest blood lead concentrations were determined at poorly-designed shooting ranges, and where housekeeping practices and hygiene facilities were inadequate. Lead is a toxic metal that may cause serious physical and mental health problems. In children even low blood lead levels have been associated with lowered IQ and poor school performance, as well as hearing loss and difficulty in concentrating. In adults, lead has been linked to lowered fertility, kidney damage, hypertension, heart disease and stroke. Lead exposure during childhood has also been associated with aggression and violent behaviour later in life. Chief inspector of Occupational Health and Safety at the Department of Labour Tibor Szana expressed concern about high blood lead levels seen in some shooting range workers. “The Department of Labour is currently developing a strategy to assist managers in the creation of safer working environments in shooting ranges.” The SAPS also responded to the study by partnering with the research team to develop a lead hazard education intervention for police officers who regularly train at shooting ranges. The intervention is currently being rolled out to police and public shooting ranges nationwide. SAMRC’s environment and health research unit director Angela Mathee said: “Internationally, shooting ranges have been under scrutiny for decades, but to our knowledge this is the first study of lead exposure in shooting ranges in South Africa. “Emissions during the use of guns and lead bullets, as well as the melting of lead to mould lead bullets, may lead to inhalation of lead vapour. Lead particles that have settled on surfaces in shooting ranges may contaminate hands and end up being ingested (for example during eating, chewing nails). “This is a health concern for shooters themselves, especially those with low levels of awareness of the hazards and pathways of exposure to lead. It is also a concern for their families since lead particles may be transferred from shooting ranges into homes on the hair, skin, clothing and shoes of shooting range users and workers.” - Staff Writer