Saul Radomsky won the award for Best Set Design for the Fugard Theatre’s South African premiere production of Pulitzer Prize, Tony and Olivier award-winning Clybourne Park, which was directed by Greg Karvellas. Radomsky’s set, which had to age 50 years in the course of the play, received great acclaim. David Kramer won the award for Best Soundscape, Original Music Composition or Original Score category for his Original Music Composition and Original Score for the Fugard production of District Six - Kanala which played to full houses and acclaim since opening in February last year. The production ran for more than 200 performances. I See You, which was presented by The Market Theatre, Joburg, and the Royal Court, London, in association with The Fugard Theatre, played at the Fugard hot off its premiere at the Royal Court and run at the Market Theatre. Mongiwekhaya won Best New South African Script for the play, which tells a story of a student accused of a crime he didn’t commit. “We are honoured to have received our nominations and these awards, especially in such esteemed company and we congratulate all the winners and nominees,” said Daniel Galloway, executive director of the Fugard Theatre. “Saul’s set change for Clybourne Park ageing it 50 years between Act 1 and Act 2, drew audible gasps of amazement from the audience. We thank South African legend David Kramer for creating District Six - Kanala with us for the important remembrance of the forced removals of those who lived in District Six, and for reminding us of stories that need to be told through local music that must be remembered and celebrated. “We also thank our partners at the Royal Court in London and Market Theatre in Johannesburg for assisting us to bring I See You to Cape Town,” says Galloway. “Mongiwekhaya’s script touched many people deeply. "We deeply appreciate the wonderful, world-class work which Eric Abraham continues to enable at the Fugard Theatre.” So Ry Miss Daisy with John Kani and Sandra Prinsloo is on at the Fugard Theatre until March31 while Funny Girl - The Musical opens on April18. On Sunday mornings, the Fugard Bioscope screens the best of world theatre, opera and ballet productions. Other forthcoming productions include Hemelruim from April25 and the South African musical King Kong from July25.  *  For information visit www.thefugard.com or contact the Fugard Theatre box office at 021 461 4554. 