This past weekend started off with high school bands performing at the Artscape Theatre complex, including those from Cedar High School, Wynberg Senior Secondary, Settlers High, Alexander Sinton, Livingstone High, Worcester High School, Heathfield High, and Groote Schuur High. Tomorrow, the uMculo Wam masterclass kicks off in Masiphumelele near Kommetjie, with interactive performances and presentations by local and international artists. The workshop will show local artists how music instruments from Africa and around the world have evolved, and the link between history and the future of music. On Wednesday, the Cape Sun Hotel hosts the Cape Town Fashion Workshop, which will feature a panel discussion hosted by leading designers and entrepreneurs, aimed at students studying fashion. The workshop, held from 10.30am to noon, intends to empower students with valuable industry input and recommendations about the fashion industry. Also at the Cape Sun Hotel on Wednesday, the Cape Town International Jazz Festival will host the music technology workshop where participants can discover the latest trends and innovations in smart device technology and how musicians can use them to their benefit. This workshop takes place from noon to 2.30pm. Running until Saturday, the Artscape Theatre complex will host the Arts Journalism programme, which is facilitated by Business Day jazz columnist Gwen Ansell and award-winning South African writer and journalist, Percy Mabandu. The programme is aimed at qualified journalists, freelance writers and journalism students and is the longest running trainee initiative for the Cape Town International Jazz Festival. At 5pm Wednesday Greenmarket Square will be abuzz as the Cape Town International Jazz Festival gives ordinary Capetonians an appetiser of the weekend’s concert. Headlining the show will be American R&B divas En Vogue alongside Moreira Chonguica, Mango Groove and the Sekunjalo EduJazz Big Band. This year 37000 people are expected to attend the festival, with the Cape Town and Western Cape economy getting an injection of more than R700million from the festivities. The weekend passes are already sold out, but day passes remain on sale at R690 each. This year’s show also includes artists Manu Dibango, Laura Mvula, The Soweto String Quarter and Thandiswa Mazwa.