Water-saving tricks and techniques have been widely shared in an effort to save water in the metro, and mayor Patricia de Lille has let us in on her secrets. De Lille no longer uses water to wash her car or water her garden. Her spokesperson, Zara Nicholson, said the mayor uses dry shampoo to wash her vehicle, and when she showers, catches the water in a bucket and use it for household purposes, including watering her flowers. De Lille also closed her pool last year, and now saves many litres a month. The age-old brick in the toilet sistern also applies as De Lille is conscious that every flush runs down the drain. Water supply in the Cape Town metro area was at an effective 23% yesterday enough for 121 days if people continued to use water wisely and sparingly. This month marks Water Week, which seeks to build awareness of the importance of the precious resource. The Department of Water and Sanitation this week announced it would audit all municipalities in the province to see if they are complying with water restrictions.The City said yesterday it would stick to its water-usage data after coming under fire from several quarters over its accuracy, with some critics claiming homes which had reported high readings had faulty water meters.City spokesperson Priya Reddy insisted the list of top 100 water users was accurate. The top 100 list is based on the actual water readings. The City s Water Inspectorate is inspecting the various properties on the list and engaging with property owners. According to our records, not one of the households reported a leak through the City s many channels or sought any kind of assistance from the City, said Reddy.She called on residents to monitor their water bills and report leaks - even those coming from underground pipes.The responsibility lies with residents to monitor their water bills, to identify leaks - even if these emanate from underground pipes on their property - and to have them repaired.Leaks constitute consumption: the bigger the leak, the higher the consumption. The City is only mandated to maintain the pipes up until the boundary of privately owned properties.The mayor, deputy mayor, mayoral committee members and water inspectors will continue to engage with high water users in all sectors, including business and residential.If a resident detects a leak on their premises, they are encouraged to apply for a rebate from the City.