Divan Grobler, who has spent the past 14 months hand-rearing another calf, Osita, which was abandoned by its mother on the reserve, raced to the orphan’s aid. The yet-to-be-named calf and Grobler were welcomed by Searl Derman, who heads the Saving Private Rhino initiative, and young Hunter 
Mitchell, who has raised more than R100 000 for the care of Osita. Hunter, who turns 10 next week, has already committed to helping with his new friend, starting with his birthday money, and he hopes to spend his birthday celebrating this weekend with the new young rhino and Osita. The orphanage, the first of its kind in the Western Cape, will have the facilities to raise orphaned rhinos in a safe and secure environment with experienced staff to give the young rhinos the best chance possible. Award-winning conser-
vation efforts by Saving Private Rhino include free anti-
poaching training courses at game reserves throughout South Africa. The team has also committed itself to rehabilitate and release rhinos that have suffered facial and respiratory injuries due to poaching 
incidences. Johan Marais has been appointed as the initiative’s patron, national head vet and wildlife surgeon. Marais founded the Saving the Survivors initiative in 2012 to attend to injured endangered wildlife, particularly rhinos and elephants, and brings a wealth knowledge and 
experience. He is known the world over for his groundbreaking procedures and pioneering sur-
geries on severely injured rhinos. There are huge feed, security, medication, maintenance of equipment and facilities, and staff and management expenses involved with running an orphanage. Caring for baby rhinos is costly, with added high risks due to them being prone to infections. A baby rhino needs a milk feed every three hours, requiring staff-intensive chores with regards to feeding, hygiene and cleaning routines on a 24-hour basis. Baby rhinos will drink milk worth about R5 000 a month, and when they get a bit older will eat lucerne and teff costing an additional R5 000 a month. In the first six months, they are susceptible to health problems such as colic and ulcers, requiring expensive medication and treatment from 
qualified vets. Daily armed security is expensive, given that the training course costs R25 000 and uniforms can cost up to R5 000, with rifles costing around R25 000. Add to this night-vision systems at R30 000 to R50 000 and thermo-vision systems at R100 000-plus. Backpacks and first-aid kits can cost an additional R5 000. The orphanage near Touws River has appealed for private and corporate donors to dedicate time, funding and 
equipment. “Eventually most of the rhinos will go back to their owners once they are old enough to feed by themselves and defend themselves against other rhinos and predators,” Derman said. “We have two associated game reserves (almost 15 000ha) into which to release any rhino that cannot find a home. These reserves have competent anti-poaching units and security measures,” he said. While it was still early days at the orphanage for the feisty 70kg new resident, Derman said the baby rhino was 
“settling in nicely”.