Although regulations promote equal employment opportunities for persons with intellectual disabilities, these opportunities remain limited. Alexandra Hospital s Clinical Functional Business Unit manager Nashreen Morris said with the correct training, support and an appropriate occupation, people with intellectual disabilities can make valued contributions in the workplace and to the economy, as we mark Intellectual Disability Awareness month. This month focuses on promoting the right of employment for people with intellectual disabilities. Maitland-based Alexandra Hospital renders specialist psychiatric services to people with intellectual disabilities and psychiatric illnesses or behaviour challenges. A similar service is also available at Lentegeur Hospital. With 141 admissions and 296 patients being attended to in the Outpatients Department in the 2015/2016 financial year, Alexandra Hospital has established work participation initiatives to source employment opportunities for outpatients, either in a business environment or in a protected environment. Over the past five years the Occupational Therapy division has successfully placed seven clients in the open labour market and 30 in protective employment in the community, many of whom still retain their employment. Employment for people with intellectual disabilities is about something far more important than money. Equal employment opportunities enable people with intellectual disabilities to participate socially in the workplace, improves their independence and self-worth, stimulates their mental and physical capabilities and provides them with an opportunity to use their skills and talents, said Morris. Occupational Therapy department head Donnia Krotz, said OTs (occupational therapists) often network with businesses or companies in the local business districts to locate employment opportunities for outpatients. Once an opportunity is identified and a partnership is established, the OTs will focus on educating the employer on intellectual disability and adaption in the work place. Our other tasks include assessing the client and job matching, training and coaching the client on site and providing ongoing support to the client, their immediate supervisor and the employer, explains Krotz. Persons with intellectual disabilities often face difficulties in areas such as communication, social and academic skills and aren t sometimes able to live independently. However our team realises that there is no one-size-fits-all approach when seeking employment opportunities for our clients. We create a personal and individualised method that meets the individual support needs of that person and company, she says. A female patient, who has been working at MerryPak for the past 3 years said: I enjoy going to work and interacting with my colleagues. They make me feel part of a family. I pack crafts, label and barcode products I am grateful for this opportunity. Alexandra Hospital has partnered with MerryPak since 2014 to provide employment opportunities for persons with intellectual disabilities from the facility. The company has 36 employees with intellectual disabilities, six are from Alexandra Hospital.Businesses interested in partnering with Alexandra Hospital s work participation programme for individuals with intellectual disabilities may contact Donnia Krotz on 021 503 5000.