The Cape Craft Design Institute (CCDI) hosted the launch of the Peek.org.za website, a new e-commerce portal that gives South African small craft and design businesses a platform to showcase and sell products. The Peek website launched a pilot in August and, since then, has registered more than 145 businesses, had over 140&nbsp;000 web visits and has close to 780 products available. The website provides over 300&nbsp;000 designers and craft-makers the opportunity to connect with consumers on a non-transactional digital platform.The site is free to use and is open to all South African creatives to sell their work domestically and globally, providing a much larger audience and consumer base for locally-made products.The CCDI is spearheading Peek through the Craft Customised Sector Programme, which is funded by the Department of Small Business Development (DBSD). CCDI is a not-for-profit company with over 15 years' experience in growing local creative businesses. CCDI currently supports over 2&nbsp;200 businesses annually with R150&nbsp;million in direct investment in the small business sector since 2001.CCDI executive director Erica Elk said new initiatives like Peek help in creating national employment and boost economic production. Peek is not a curated site, so its unique value is the diversity of the range of products and aesthetics. Research from November for retail trade in the Western Cape Metro is up R200m in turnover into the local economy and a contribution of over 500 jobs. One of the key challenges for small South African businesses remains access to markets. With technology, however, we have the opportunity to bridge the divide and create new ways for beautiful local products to reach local and international buyers. &quot;We are very grateful to the DSBD for the funding to undertake this landmark initiative, said Elk.Among the speakers was Small Business Development Minister Lindiwe Zulu, who told the launch that although South Africa s visual arts exports grew 1.5% from 2001 to 2012, the creative industries market remained miniscule when compared to global competitors.Zulu said that by 2030, 90% of South African jobs will be created through small to medium businesses. She said platforms like Peek can bring about a significant boost to the economy.