The deputy chairperson of the Sea Point, Fresnaye, Bantry Bay Ratepayers and Residents Association, David Polovin, has been accused of illegally accessing financial records of his neighbour following a dispute over housing renovations. Polovin, an attorney associated with Kritzinger &amp; Co Attorneys, has been charged with contravening sections of the Electronic Communications Act for unauthorised access to, interception of, or interference with data.Yesterday he made a brief appearance in the Specialised Commercial Crimes Court in Bellville. The State alleges that Polovin, who is also the director of Cottonwood Technologies, had requested a consumer credit report on the complainant s financial affairs in 2012, by using the Trans Union website via a Law Data System called SearchWorks, which enabled access to financial information of clients or other parties. The State alleged Polovin unlawfully and intentionally accessed or intercepted data, accessing the credit profile of the complainant on the TransUnion database, without the authority or permission to do so from the complainant. At no stage did the complainant authorise and/or permit the accused to access her private and confidential information, according to the charge sheet. Polovin and the complainant previously had disagreements regarding permission to enable renovations at their respective properties in Kloof Road, Bantry Bay, according to the charge sheet. The accused could not provide a consent form filled in by the complainant where she authorised the access to her credit record, read the charge. Polovin could be fined or imprisoned for 12 months per count if found guilty of the charges. Approached for a comment, Polovin said: The matter is before the court and it is therefore not appropriate to comment, beyond pointing out that it relates simply to a credit check done on a computer program that is in routine use by law offices and other enterprises. It is our unequivocal view that no offence of any nature was committed. The case against Polovin was postponed to next month. National Prosecuting Authority spokesperson Eric Ntabazalila said this was to afford the defence an opportunity to study the contents of the docket. The draft charge sheet attached outlines an apparent feud between the accused and the complainant that culminated in the charge of illegal accessing financial information. There is no evidence in the docket that directly or inferentially suggests that other parties assisted the accused, he said. Polovin landed himself in hot water last year for his remarks over the development of the former Tafelberg school site. He had allegedly said development of affordable housing for the poor on the Tafelberg site was not in the interests of the Sea Point community. Sea Point residents Thandeka Sisusa and Emma Daitz lodged a racism complaint with mayor Patricia de Lille.