President Jacob Zuma has appointed 10 new ministers and 10 new deputy ministers following one of the biggest culls of a cabinet since the advent of democracy. And the worst kept secret of the past week is also out: Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan and his deputy, Mcebesi Jonas, have been axed. The new finance minister is former home affairs minister Malusi Gigaba, with Sifiso Buthelezi his deputy. The biggest losers have been the SACP, who have lost most of their representatives in the cabinet. Ministers shown the door include Derek Hanekom (Tourism), Ebrahim Patel (Economic Development), Rob Davies (Trade and Industry) and Dipuo Peters (Transport). Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini has managed to retain her job despite the social grants disaster. New ministers 1. Minister of Energy, Ms Mmamoloko “Nkhensani” Kubayi 2. Minister of Transport, Mr Joe Maswanganyi 3. Minister of Finance, Mr Malusi Gigaba 4. Minister of Police, Mr Fikile Mbalula 5. Minister of Public Works, Mr Nathi Nhleko, 6. Minister of Sports and Recreation, Mr Thembelani Nxesi 7. Minister of Tourism, Ms Tokozile Xasa 8. Minister of Public Service and Administration, Ms Faith Muthambi 9. Minister of Home Affairs, Prof Hlengiwe Mkhize 10. Minister of Communications, Ms Ayanda Dlodlo  New deputy ministers 1. Deputy Minister of Public Service and Administration, Ms Dipuo Letsatsi-Duba 2. Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Sifiso Buthelezi 3. Deputy Minister of Public Enterprises, Mr Ben Martins 4. Deputy Minister of Arts and Culture, Ms Maggie Sotyu 5. Deputy Minister of Trade and Industry, Mr Gratitude Magwanishe 6. Deputy Minister of Communications, Ms Thandi Mahambehlala, 7. Deputy Minister of Tourism, Ms Elizabeth Thabethe 8. Deputy Minister of Police, Mr Bongani Mkongi 9. Deputy Minister of Telecommunications and Postal Services, Ms Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams  10. Deputy Minister of Small Business Development, Ms Nomathemba November. Zuma said through a statement the changes were necessary in order to improve efficiency and effectiveness. "The changes bring some younger MPs and women into the national executive in order to benefit from their energy, experience and expertise. "I have directed the new ministers and deputy ministers to work tirelessly with their colleagues to bring about radical socio-economic transformation and to ensure that the promise of a better life for the poor and the working class becomes a reality." Zuma’s cabinet reshuffle followed two days of high drama, when most of the media were reporting that the tide had turned against the president, and that he was close to being asked to step down. But a source close to the Presidency told Independent Media this was “rubbish”. Zuma “is as entrenched in the position as he has even been”. The fact that he has been able to make all these changes shows how strong he is in the party, the source said. “At the moment, Zuma cannot be touched. He has thrown down the gauntlet to those who want him out: 'Remove me – if you dare'." The reshuffle is a clear indication that in the past few days the battle for the soul of the ANC has moved into overdrive, with the president moving decisively to strengthen his hand. Before his late-night announcement our source accused some ANC members of working with the EFF and the DA in a bid to remove Zuma. At the same time, a rumour began circulating that a compromise “deal had been brokered that would see the president stepping down within 12 months, if Gordhan and Jonas were to leave office. But our source said: “That’s rubbish. It’s just disinformation being spread by Zuma’s opponents. They’re using a story from Reuters, which is not known for the accuracy of its reports about South African politics. “Zuma is very angry. This is not the way he operates. He will not quit. He intends fulfilling his term. “He believes he has vast majority support across the country – and that this majority, will enable him to beat off the challenge of those who want him out. “One of the other pieces of disinformation had secretary-general Gwede Mantashe trying to persuade Zuma to step down. But whoever spread this rumour simply circulated an anonymous Tweet picked up from Twitter. Turning to the furore over Gordhan, our source said Zuma believes that just as he appointed Gordhan, so can he relieve him of his duties. “People must understand, Pravin works for Zuma,” our source said. And responding to comments that the president had sidelined his alliance partners, he added: "Zuma is well aware of how the tripartite alliance works. Normally, he would consult with his alliance partners, and he is very careful to take their views into consideration. But he does not need to follow their advice. The buck stops with him.” Our source says Zuma has the support he needs in the cabinet and in the national executive committee top six. But while he admitted the president’s support needed to be tested in the ANC’s parliamentary caucus, he said Zuma knows he has overwhelming support in regions such as Nelson Mandela Bay and eThekwini. “He is very strong in the party.” A key moment in the fight for the soul of the ANC was Zuma’s decision to recall Gordhan and Jonas from an investor conference overseas. This immediately led to speculation that Gordhan was about to be axed from the cabinet. “When Zuma acts as decisively as this, he knows he’s in a strong position,” our source said. But the anti-Zuma group within the party, led by former president Kgalema Motlanthe, has not been standing back. Delivering the eulogy at the funeral of Ahmed Kathrada on Wednesday, Motlanthe quoted from a letter written by the Struggle veteran almost a year ago, in which he asked the president to resign. Mourners, including cabinet ministers such as Aaron Motsoaledi, rose and clapped. ANC luminary Winnie Mandela, although she did not rise to her feet, smiled broadly. The Zuma camp was very angry, and they have accused Motlanthe and his supporters of using the funeral of the ANC veteran to wage their campaign against the president.