The ANC has recalled Kannaland mayor Magdalena Barry and her deputy, Phillipus Antonie, to try to end its relationship with the DA in the governing of the municipality. The party in the Western Cape said its councillors in Kannaland went into a “coalition” with the DA to keep the majority party, the Independent Civic Organisation of South Africa (Icosa), out of governance in Kannaland. This was despite the clear ideological and policy positions of the ANC and those of the DA, and owing to their frustration with the previous relationships with Icosa, ANC provincial secretary Faiez Jacobs said. The 2016 local government elections left Kannaland Municipality without an outright majority party. But the DA said it did not enter into a coalition with the ANC and that councillors at Kannaland Municipality established “a working agreement” without consulting their respective leadership structures, in an effort to rid the municipality of Icosa’s poor governance. Jacobs said when the ANC executive committee began a process with its councillors to move the party out of the relationship with the DA, they uncovered “all kinds of wrongdoing” in the previous administration. “This resulted in Kannaland being in a financially unsustainable situation. Intervention was requested by the ANC from Corporative Governance and Traditional Affairs, which resulted in the municipality being put on a financial recovery plan.” Jacobs said one of the ANC councillors recalled was a ward councillor and therefore a by-election would be held within 90 days. DA provincial spokesperson Anneke Scheepers said under the previous administration financial irregularity was rampant. One of the key issues was the case where the former Icosa administration intended to take out a loan to repay its Eskom debt, which was more than R12 million at the time. “The financial recovery plan has since resulted in a massive reduction of this debt. The councillors in question are seeking an interdict to prevent being recalled. ‘‘The timing of the recall is suspicious, as there is a pending forensic audit that will take place as part of the recovery plan. If the councillors do not succeed in defending this questionable recall, then the DA will contest the by-election that will follow in Ward 3,” she said. Local Government, Environmental Affairs and Development Planning MEC Anton Bredell said: A number of serious challenges that the new council had inherited had been discovered, including an unsustainable wage bill and a big creditors’ bill. Eskom was owed in excess of R14m.” Bredell said the new council inherited a municipality in a severe financial crisis. “The priorities have been to develop a financial recovery plan and a support package to address the municipality’s immediate needs.”  siyavuya.mzantsi@inl.co.za 