MPs have heard that while it is easy to say that if national and provincial government departments did their jobs properly there would be no need to sue them, there is another side to the issue. In their debates in the National Assembly, members of the joint parliamentary committees on health and appropriations highlighted the propensity of some lawyers to use government like a piggy bank. MPs said now that the Road Accident Fund (RAF) had been milked dry by unscrupulous attorneys and the taps had been closed, health professionals feared that predatory lawyers were turning to the national Health Department  and, in particular, the provincial departments of health, to continue reaping the bonanza they had been accustomed to. Some of the testimony in Parliament last week was harrowing: tales of lawyers colluding with one another, stories of lawyers stealing patients’ files and - worst of all - preying on people blinded by desperation and sadness, and hamstrung by their inexperience and un-
sophistication. MPs said lawyers sometimes promised clients what appeared to be a large amount, like R100000, but then claimed and won R2 million in court, keeping the balance.. It was exactly this predatory practice that made a mockery of the RAF fund and played a large role in its ultimate bankruptcy, they said. Patients had a right to good health care and had a right to sue for redress when they did not get what they had every right to expect. The problem, MPs said, was that patients were being used as pawns by professionals who should and did know better, but did not care. Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi has promised to investigate the actions of lawyers suing provincial departments of health for billions of rand. This follows complaints by provincial departments to the joint committees on health and appropriations in Parliament. Motsoaledi’s spokesperson Joe Maila said yesterday he would address the matter urgently. Motsoaledi was aware of the costly lawsuits against the provincial departments by lawyers, he said. National Treasury told Parliament last week that medical claims against the state had increased from R28bn to R43bn. Provinces even accused lawyers of colluding with staff members to lodge claims, accusing some lawyers of having gone to health-care facilities and early childhood development centres to look for children with cerebral palsy to sue provincial departments. Maila said Motsoaledi would ensure that the issue was resolved as a matter of urgency. “We are aware of these kinds of things. The minister convened a medico-legal summit last year in order for us to find a solution to these matters.” Maila said the lawsuits were not restricted to the public sector, and even the private sector was being sued. This had forced doctors working in the private sector to take out large insurance cover. “The sad part is that they are litigating specialists out of practice. For example, no one wants to work as an obstetrician,” he said. Maila said the department was working around the clock to ensure the problem was attended to and addressed as soon as possible. In ensuring that spurious claims were not made, Maila said it was important that hospitals did not allow files to go missing. Chairperson of the portfolio committee on health, Lindelwa Dunjwa, said last week that she had heard of cases in which files of patients were stolen and given to unscrupulous lawyers. This allegation was repeated by provincial MECs who appeared before Parliament. They accused some lawyers of colluding with internal staff to steal files. ANC MP Sibongile Manana said she knew of cases in which lawyers were struck off the roll for stealing patients’ files when she was MEC for health in Mpumalanga.