Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger will take into consideration the views of the club's divided fan base before deciding whether to extend his 20-year reign at the north London side. Arsenal supporters staged protests calling for Wenger, who is out of contract at the end of the season, to leave prior to Tuesday's 5-1 home loss to Bayern Munich, with some even accusing the manager of "killing" the club. "It will influence. But it won't be the most important factor," Wenger said when asked if protests would affect the decision on his future. Arsenal chairman Chips Keswick said fans were entitled to their opinions. "Arsene has a contract until the end of the season. Any decisions will be made by us mutually and communicated at the right time in the right way," Keswick told the club's website. "We respect that fans are entitled to their different individual opinions, but we will always run this great football club with its best long-term interests at heart." Wenger rejected the notion he would be tarnishing his legacy if he prolonged his stay. "I don't work for my image, I work for this club. How I look is not really my problem," he said. Theo Walcott has urged his teammates to stop fighting among themselves after British media reported Alexis Sanchez had a heated verbal exchange with Laurent Koscielny last week. "I think a lot has been said about that is exaggerated," Wenger said. "We can show how united we are. On that front, I don't worry," he said, adding: "A lot has been said. We have a good united and determined group. When you go through disappointing results, you have disagreements." Arsenal have the perfect chance to put their painful Champions League exit behind them as they prepare for tomorrow's FA Cup quarter-final at home to non-league Lincoln City. FA Cup fixtures Tomorrow: Middlesbrough v Man City, Riverside Stadium, 2.15pm, Arsenal v Lincoln City, Emirates Stadium, 7.30pm Sunday: Tottenham v Millwall, White Hart Lane, 4pm Monday: Chelsea v Man United, Stamford Bridge, 9.45pm