The government s proposal to tighten up bail laws to prevent the release of suspected criminals by the courts could run into trouble with the constitution.This is the warning issued by experts yesterday following a proposal by the Department of Justice to look at new bail conditions.President Jacob Zuma asked his security cluster ministers to look at how they can prevent the release of people from custody after they have been arrested for various crimes.However, experts warned that the proposal by the Justice Department to tighten up bail laws was flawed and fraught with problems.Constitutional law expert at the University of Cape Town Professor Pierre de Vos said this was a serious problem. He said there was a Constitutional Court judgment on what was a requirement for bail.This was also demonstrated by the recent Constitutional Court ruling on University of KwaZulu-Natal student leader Bonginkosi Khanyile, who was released on R250 bail after six months in jail.De Vos said the Constitutional Court had showed in this case that presiding officers were too strict in releasing people on bail.He said the problem was not bail, but whether the police were fully equipped to deal with cases and the National Prosecuting Authority able to prosecute those cases.He also warned that the government could run into trouble with the constitution on this matter. Tightening it more, they may go on the wrong side of what the constitution requires, said De Vos.Dullah Omar Institute senior researcher Jean Redpath said bail was not the problem. Bail laws were tightened in 1998 and all the research we have done shows that people are not easily released by the courts. Our view is that the opposite should happen; that bail should be less strict. I don t know how they can be more strict, said RedpathShe said there was no evidence that people were easily released on bail, except when police were complaining to Zuma. We have 240 000 people going into prison remand every year, and less than half of those are convicted. If you want to tighten up bail, let us see the evidence, said Redpath.Wits University researcher Lisa Vetten agreed that the bail laws were already strict. To tighten up bail, they have to look at the constitution because they have already tightened it up in 1998. I am not sure they will go further than this without running into trouble with the constitution, she said.Vetten said she spent most of her time in the courts, and in some cases, the quality of the investigation was not what it should be. The investigations were slow and there was also a problem of overcrowding in prisons, she said. There were various factors that influenced the courts to release people on bail, she added.National Prosecuting Authority spokesperson Luvuyo Mfaku said they would not comment on the matter until there had been a review of the legislation and the NPA was asked to comment on it by the Justice Department.