And the worst-kept secret of the past week is also out: Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan and his deputy, Mcebesi Jonas, have been axed. The new finance minister is Malusi Gigaba. The biggest loser has been the South African Communist Party, which has lost most of its representatives in cabinet. The ministers who have been shown the door are: Pravin Gordhan, Mcebesi Jonas, Derek Hanekom, Ebrahim Patel, Rob Davies and Dipuo Peters. In a statement shortly after midnight,  Zuma said: "I have decided to make changes to the national executive in order to improve efficiency and effectiveness. “The changes bring some younger MPs and women into the national executive in order to benefit from their energy, experience and expertise. “I have directed the new ministers and deputy ministers to work tirelessly with their colleagues to bring about radical socio-economic transformation and to ensure that the promise of a better life for the poor and the working class becomes a reality. New ministers 1.    Minister of Energy, Ms Mmamoloko “Nkhensani” Kubayi 2.    Minister of Transport, Mr Joe Maswanganyi 3.    Minister of Finance, Mr Malusi Gigaba 4.    Minister of Police, Mr Fikile Mbalula 5.    Minister of Public Works, Mr Nathi Nhleko, 6.    Minister of Sports and Recreation, Mr Thembelani Nxesi 7.    Minister of Tourism, Ms Tokozile Xasa 8.    Minister of Public Service and Administration, Ms Faith Muthambi 9.    Minister of Home Affairs, Prof Hlengiwe Mkhize 10. Minister of Communications, Ms Ayanda Dlodlo New deputy ministers 1.    Deputy Minister of Public Service and Administration, Ms Dipuo Letsatsi-Duba 2.    Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Sifiso Buthelezi 3.    Deputy Minister of Public Enterprises, Mr Ben Martins 4.    Deputy Minister of Arts and Culture, Ms Maggie Sotyu 5.    Deputy Minister of Trade and Industry, Mr Gratitude Magwanishe 6.    Deputy Minister of Communications, Ms Thandi Mahambehlala, 7.    Deputy Minister of Tourism, Ms Elizabeth Thabethe 8.    Deputy Minister of Police, Mr Bongani Mkongi 9.    Deputy Minister of Telecommunications and Postal Services, Ms Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams 10. Deputy Minister of Small Business Development, Ms Nomathemba November. “I wish to extend  gratitude to the outgoing ministers and deputy ministers for their service to the country. I also wish the new ministers and deputy ministers the best in their new responsibilities.” Zuma’s cabinet reshuffle followed two days of high drama, when most of the media were reporting that the tide had turned against the president, and that he was close to being asked to step down. But a source close to the Presidency told Independent Media this was “rubbish”. Zuma “is as entrenched in the position as he has even been”. The fact that he has been able to make all these changes shows how strong he is in the party, the source said. “At the moment, Zuma cannot be touched. "He has thrown down the gauntlet to those who want him out: “'Remove me - if you dare'.” The reshuffle is a clear indication that in the past few days, the battle for the soul of the ANC has shifted into overdrive, with the president moving 
decisively to strengthen his hand. Before his late-night announcement, our source accused some ANC members of working with the EFF and the DA in a bid to remove Zuma. At the same time, a rumour began circulating that a compromise “deal had been brokered that would see the president stepping down within 12 months, if Gordhan and Jonas were to leave office. But our source said: “That’s rubbish. It’s just disinformation being spread by Zuma’s opponents. They’re using a story from Reuters, which is not known for the accuracy of its reports about South African politics. “Zuma is very angry. This is not the way he operates. "He will not quit. He intends fulfilling his term. “He believes he has vast majority support across the country - and that this majority will enable him to beat off the challenge of those who want him out.”