The incident occurred despite paramedics being escorted by police as Tafelsig was marked a red zone. Police say a case of common assault was opened for investigation after the paramedics were attacked when attending to a call at a house in Kanonkop street, Tafelsig, at about 7.45pm on Saturday. The paramedics had loaded a semi-unconscious patient into the ambulance when a resident believed to be the patient’s mother allegedly jumped into the vehicle and attacked a female paramedic. According to EMS southern district division manager, JA Van Zyl, the ambulance driver had stopped to protect his partner when a group of residents attacked them. He said the crew were taken to hospital after they sustained facial injuries. Police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana said circumstances surrounding the assault were under investigation and no one had been arrested. Browns Farm in Philippi, Tafelsig, Hyde Park, Nyanga, Gugulethu, New Crossroads and Manenberg were among the areas marked red zones from 6:30pm to 6am following a spike in attacks on emergency personnel earlier this year. Western Cape EMS manager Phumzile Papu said: “What is very sad is that we get attacked in areas where our services are most needed. “We need to establish how this happened while the police were present. “What is the point of the police escort when our members are attacked in their presence? I am trying to arrange a meeting with them to get details of how this happened.” The area’s Community Policing Forum’s (CPF) Abie Isaacs said it was shocking that some residents would turn on EMS personnel while providing essential services to the community. “As the CPF, we condemn these kinds of acts against the emergency services crews. We request the community to work together with the paramedics not to attack them. “The community must also come forward with information that will help with the police investigation,” he said. Isaacs added that they were of the view that these were thugs using legitimate grievances to their benefit. “It would be very sad situation where people are calling paramedics with criminal intent. “I think the bottom line is that we request people to come forward with any information that can assist,” he said. An EMS paramedic who asked not to be named said they felt safer in Manenberg than in Tafelsig as the area was quiet. “I would like to know what they (attackers) want from us. Is it phones or money? “Last year, they almost succeeded in pulling out a female crew member from the ambulance. “She resisted and the whole seat was ripped out while she held on to it,” he said.