Parliament has given the green light for the Expropriation Bill to be sent to the National House of Traditional Affairs for discussion. In a meeting of the programming committee yesterday, MPs agreed that the bill be referred to the House of Traditional Affairs. Speaker Baleka Mbete said that following their discussions last week, it would be appropriate to send the bill to the House of Traditional Leaders for discussion. However, the portfolio committee on public works would first discuss it next week. It would then send it to the National House of Traditional Leaders. Chairperson of the National House of Traditional Leaders Kgosi Phopolo Pontsho Maubane could not be reached for comment yesterday. Last Friday, President Jacob Zuma told the National House of Traditional Leaders in Parliament that he wanted land to be expropriated without compensation. The Congress of Traditional Leaders of SA (Contralesa) said yesterday they wanted the land given back to the people who lost it many decades ago. Contralesa president Setla-morago Thobejane said they wanted the land question to be addressed urgently. “We need our land back as in yesterday. As Contralesa, we would welcome any form of enabling legislation that land be returned to its original owners” he said. He said the whole country was taken away from the original owners, and that land must be given back. “South Africa belongs to traditional leaders and it must be returned to traditional leaders,” Thobejane said. “Before you can talk about compensation, we will ask you ‘Who did you compensate when you took our land?’. Nobody was compensated,” he said. He said the Expropriation Bill would still be subjected to court challenges by those opposed to it. The bill calls for the expropriation of land with compensation, with the courts as arbiters on compensation amounts. Last week, the ANC rejected an EFF motion in the National Assembly for the repeal of section 25 of the constitution on property. The EFF said land must be expropriated without compensation. The ANC Women’s League has come out in support of Zuma on the expropriation of land without compensation. The PAC and African People’s Convention have also backed Zuma on this matter. ANC national executive committee member Tony Yengeni questioned the decision of ANC MPs to vote against the EFF motion.