Event cancelled. My initial flashes of anger,
disappointment and frustration died down by about 11 o’clock. They simmered
down after a senseless search for who or what to direct my negative feelings
towards. So, my reflections began.    Firstly, thank you everyone involved in the
Cape Town Cycle Tour for having made the right decisionfor 35,000 cyclists and
putting safety first. My husband and I as international entrants last did the
Tour , our first, in 2009. The Year of the Great Winds. We rode through them
and finished the race. We acknowledge there were lives lost that year and that
no life is worth losing over something preventable. Our youth is now behind us so
with every passing year we appreciate more and more the value of life.  However, we wonder if there might not have been
a huge missed opportunity for the organisers to have moved this catastrophic
cancellation into something extraordinarily special. The 40th
celebration could have been just that. Extraordinarily positive.  Plan A was perfect – the Tour goes ahead and
it’s the perfect event with no incidents. That was not going to be so. Plan B
was cut the route. Neither was that to be so. To Plan C. Cancel.  Why was Plan C not to host the biggest cyclist
party ever as an opportunity from cancelling? The opportunity to turn the worst
negative ever into the best positive ever. This could have been the Tour that
no-one forgot for all the right reasons. A Cape Town Cycle Tour 40th
year history book special.  It could’ve been planned so easily. Maybe not
on a whim but as an advance plan it could’ve and should’ve been planned. The
stadium was there. The Thule bike park was there ready to host the bikes of the
35000 finishers. The finish location had the logistics for 35000 cyclists. The
hospitality could have been moved from its exposed location into the stadium. The
roads were closed awaiting us there. Why was there not a Plan C to invite all
the cyclists to go to the stadium? Protected from the wind, protected from
fires, protected from protests. Host us there, inside. Put tweets out for some
local bands to come down, for cyclists to gather together and party in the
absence of the event. Meet each other, share experiences of the last 40 and of
our worlds of cycling. Now that would’ve been quite a party. Even just tweet–
everyone come after 12 o’clock, we’ll be there for you!  Instead, we all cycled around aimlessly from
Hertzog. Some of us set off to enjoy a few kilometres of cycling but we all
lost our sense of togetherness. We were disorganised and without direction from
the organisers. Some of us found each other in some open cafes spread over the
route and tried to console ourselves for an hour or so before heading back to our
respective hotels with sad memories of what wasn’t to be.  Plan C – cancel. Organisers. You may have
thought you put the cyclists first, and safety was first, but the cyclist
experience was last. It could all have been so different, so easily. I am so
sorry. 35,000 of us are so very sorry. We are all left with a negative impact
when It could have all been so different, so very positive.What a memorable
party the 40th tour could have been.  Carol Pavitt, UK International Rider
no 45048.