A week after his death, family, friends and ANC supporters gathered not far from the home of Judge Essa Moosa to pay tribute and celebrate his life.At the memorial service, held at Belgravia High School, Moosa was described as a devout Muslim, a patriot and a socialist lawyer who cared for his clients.A letter written by Struggle stalwart Winnie Madikizela-Mandela was read and a video clip from Archbishop Emeritus Desmond Tutu was shown. His daughter Faiza Moosa said Judge Moosa was an active lawyer defending political detainees and was a founding member of the anti-apartheid National Association of Democratic Lawyers (Nadel). Faiza said her father was not only the head of their family, but a true compatriot, a selfless cadre, whose exemplary life of service to the people of the country and worldwide, had brought an enormous outpouring of support from across the country and many places around the world, where he made a difference fighting to end injustice and oppression. She said the family has been overwhelmed by the support it received since her father s passing. He remained unwavering in his quest to expose injustice and end all forms of discrimi- nation and oppression, in both South Africa and worldwide, said Faiza. Police Minister Nathi Nhleko said Judge Moosa served the country with selfless courage, honour, integrity and total commitment. That was Judge Essa s way of life and his way of being. Such was the measure of this remarkable man. He was a gallant son of Africa, our dear Judge Moosa, who survived the vortex of apartheid and lived to tell and help undo the tragic tale, said Nhleko. So many beautiful and heart-warming words have been said about this son of Indian immigrants. Indeed, this son of the soil was a selfless and tireless human rights activist at home and as far afield as the Middle East. Judge Moosa was a founding member and chairperson of the Kurdish Human Rights Action Group and chairperson of the International Peace and Reconciliation Initiative, whose key objective is to bring peace and reconciliation in the Middle East, Nhleko said.Judge Moosa spent time in prison and survived death squads from the apartheid government, he said. Judge Siraj Desai echoed these sentiments, saying Judge Moosa was a great father to his children and grandchildren. International Relations and Co-operation Deputy Minister Nomaindia Mfeketo said Judge Moosa risked his life on numerous occasions and spent days in prison cells. We memorised his telephone number because we knew there will be a clampdown by police, she said, adding that when she was in prison in Pollsmoor, Judge Moosa visited her and negotiated her release after her son died.