Since last month there have been 24 fires in the area compared with 11 during the same period last year. SANParks spokesperson Merle Collins said most vegetation fires were started by humans, either deliberately or negligently. “Due to the increase in fires, the cost of fighting the fires with aerial resources also increased drastically, and so far the cost amounts to R3364780. “This figures translates into 13 111 helicopter hours, and 32.1 spotter flying hours. TMNP contract crews were supplemented by the Working on Fire hand crews, the Volunteer Wildfire Services hand crews and the Cape Peninsula Fire Protection Association (CPFPA) hand crews,” Collins said. Some fires were started by people leaving camp/cooking fires unattended; discarding cigarette butts; discharging flares and fireworks; and arson. Lightning fires occurred infrequently, Collins said. Last week a fire at Karbonkelberg between Llandudno and Hout Bay destroyed 230 hectares of vegetation. Collins said the inaccessibility of the terrain and the age of the vegetation meant the use of aerial resources was required for prolonged periods to contain the spread of fires. This month a fire in Imizamo Yethu in Hout Bay ravaged about 3500 structures and left about 15000 people homeless. Capetonians opened their hearts and wallets to the residents, donated and distributed clothing, toiletries, baby essentials and blankets. Collins said that while responding to the fire that threatened to jump the fire break at the back of the area, the TMNP Newlands hand crew were stoned and had to withdraw. The same crew responded to flare-ups later during the day and had to be accompanied by law enforcement officers. “Gale-force winds fuelled the rapid spread of the wildfires across the landscape, which in most cases hampered firefighting efforts, and this contributed to frequent flare-ups and fires burning for longer than usual. “Due to unpredictable weather conditions, TMNP and all fire agencies request that the public exercise extreme caution during fire season, to only braai in designated areas, not to make any illegal fires and to discard cigarette butts safely,” Collins said. The City’s Fire and Rescue Service responded to just under 10000 fires between November 2015 and April last year, which claimed 32 lives. People should report fires within TMNP at 0861 106 417, or to the City of Cape Town Fire and Rescue Services at 021 480 7700, and 107 (from a landline).