A Lentegeur Hospital security guard who was fired by his employer claims he was assaulted by supervisors of Helios Security &amp; Risk Management when he collected his letter of dismissal.Ernest Mafika suffered a broken arm and bruises. He is one of about 20 employees claiming they were dismissed for joining a union. The workers say they were threatened and told to withdraw their membership from Kungwini Amalgamated Workers Union (Kawu) or not return to work. Mafika, who has been working for Helios Security &amp; Risk Management since 2010, says the attack took place when he was called to collect his letter of dismissal on Friday. We were first served with suspension letters. In the letter there were various charges against me and one of the charges was that I had damaged property at the hospital. My employer had told me not to come to work and (instead) go to collect a letter of dismissal at their offices in Athlone. Mafika said he had gone to ask the police to escort him to the offices as his employer had accused him of threatening one of his colleagues with a knife. I had never carried a knife to work, let alone fighting with a colleague. When we arrived there, the director Reza de Bruyns told me that my turn had not arrived and I must go sit by other security guards who were also waiting outside. The officers left. Soon after they left, one officer who had gone inside, came and he asked if I was carrying a knife and I told him that I do not carry a knife. I told him that the director was accusing us of various things even going as far as saying we were on strike. I was called in. As I was approaching, there were about seven people standing in front of the building. As I got closer, one of them pushed me to the ground and they started to assault me. One of the guys was choking me. I got up and proceeded to the office, but Reza pushed me back and said I should go back. He said one of the men broke his arm when he allegedly hit him with a softball bat. His assault only stopped when he screamed for help. Police spokesperson FC van Wyk said an assault with intent to do grievous bodily harm(GBH) case was registered at Athlone SAPS for investigation. Helios Security &amp; Risk Management spokesperson Zahir Williams said the company viewed the allegations seriously and said they were disturbing. Williams said the company had opened a case against Mafika for active intimidation over the knife incident.