The endangered Wildlife Trust (EWT) has confirmed that the Eastern Cape s Albany adder has possibly become the rarest snake species on the planet.The reasons for its rarity are believed to be continued human-induced habitat destruction and poaching. In response to its diminishing numbers and the constant threat to other species, EWT, together with Rainforest Trust, has embarked on its first snake conservation initiative. Albany adders are native to a very small region in the Eastern Cape Province in South Africa,&quot; said Michael Adams, a field officer for the Wildlife in Trade Programme at EWT. Since their initial discovery in the 1990s, only 12 individuals have been officially recorded.&quot;He said the snake species previously declared the rarest in the world was the St Lucia Racer from the Caribbean only between 18 and 100 individuals were estimated to exist. Based on the current numbers then, the Albany Adder could easily have the dubious honour of being the world s rarest and most threatened snake, he said.Adams said it habitat was being destroyed through human activities such as cultivation, plantation forestry and sand-mining for the cement industry. Albany adders are also highly sought after by smugglers and poachers, who illegally remove them from the wild to feed demand in the international pet trade. These factors have not only led to the Albany adder being listed as critically endangered, but to the species being considered extinct in a number of areas where it used to occur. Due to the threats, the EWT and Rainforest Trust developed a pilot project with the primary aim of discovering whether the species still existed. The last official record of an Albany adder being discovered was in 2007, so the possibility that it may already be too late to save these snakes existed when the team took to the field in the Eastern Cape to look for them. Happily, after six full days of searching for these tiny and exceptionally camouflaged snakes, a single female Albany adder was found as she crossed the road. Later that evening, a young male snake was also discovered, Adams said. Due to the exciting discovery, the team said that it was working on ways of securing additional funding to protect the snake's habitat in order to save the reptile from extinction. We are hoping to develop a declared nature reserve for these snakes. If this were to happen, it would be the first protected area in Africa, if not the world, to be dedicated to the protection of a critically endangered snake, he said.In most provinces in South Africa it s illegal to capture, possess or transport any South African reptile species without a permit. According to EWT, snakes such as the small adders are difficult to keep in captivity and will probably die within a few months. Reptile poachers who are caught face up to 10 years jail time and/or a fine of up to R1.5million, Adams warned. EWT has called on anyone with information about any illegal reptile poaching activity to contact it.