He would have left the country to join the underground army to fight for the liberation of South Africa. Instead, he followed in his father’s footsteps and became an advocate. Vassen was Parliament’s lawyer, representing then-Speakers Max Sisulu and Frene Ginwala. “Because of Kathy’s influence, I have an undergraduate degree, an honours degree in economic history, an LLB and a post-graduate diploma in peace research. “I followed in my dad’s footsteps. Before I joined the Cape Bar, I was a parliamentary legal adviser for 11 years, legal adviser to Max Sisulu and Frene Ginwala,” he said. He paid tribute to Kathrada as thousands of mourners paid their last respects at his funeral in Joburg. The family had hoped Kathrada would speak at a memorial service for Ramesh Vassen. Their deaths followed that of fellow Struggle lawyer Peter Williams, Western Cape High Court Judge Essa Moosa and Eastern Cape Judge Bonisile Sandi. Vassen recalled his father smuggling items in that Kathrada had requested while in prison. “We visited him in prison a couple of time. Visits were very restricted then, but my father visited him frequently,” he said. Vassen said apartheid police had first raided his house to detain him in 1986, at the age of 14. He was not interested in furthering his studies and wanted to leave the country when Kathrada wrote to him in December, 1987 relating the importance of education and the continuing quest for knowledge while continuing the fight for justice. In the letter he said: “You will no doubt be surprised to receive the letter from me. I too was carried away and left school before completing my finals. In December 1946 I too defied and was sentenced to a month’s imprisonment which I spent in jail. “More than 2000 volunteers went to jail. But in the course of time, the enthusiasm waned; the students went back to university and numerous others returned to their jobs and professions. “I did not go back and remained more or less a full-time activist until I was imprisoned in 1963.” Kathrada wrote about his experiences in prison, including his achievements, failures, joys and regrets. Mukesh said he would forever remember Kathrada for being courageous, humble and principled and for reminding him about the importance of education. Vassen said his family was finding it difficult to process the deaths of his father and Kathrada. “At our time of loss, the Vassen family sends their heartfelt condolences to Barbara Hogan, his life partner, and the Kathrada family. “The combined loss makes it even harder as Uncle Kathy was not just a mentor, but a loving friend. May his example of being principled and humble inspire us all,” he said. A memorial service for Ramesh Vassen  will be held at Samaj Centre in Gatesville on Sunday.