A national essay-writing competition tackling racism will encourage young people to prove that the pen is indeed mightier than the sword. The South African Youth Essay Writing Competition Against Racism is inviting young people between the age categories of 15-25 and 26-35 from across the country to share their reflections on racism. Essays can be entered in any of the 11 official languages, according to Busisiwe Nkosi, from the Ahmed Kathrada Foundation s Youth Leadership Programme.The competition is being organised in collaboration with Khwerha Ye Afrika and the Ahmed Kathrada Foundation and is supported by the Department of Arts and Culture, the Foundation for Human Rights, the Steve Biko Foundation, Spotlight Creations and various other local organisations. The initiative comes as a response to national discussions on racism, Nkosi said. We are talking about racism, and about an inclusive South Africa. For many, English is not their mother tongue or their first language, and they may be able to better express themselves in their home language, she said. We want to give young people a safe space to pen down their thoughts. We previously had a special contest, but some young people are better at writing than speaking, and we want to ensure their voices are heard, Nkosi added.A collection of the essays will be published in a booklet, which will be distributed to high schools across the country.There are various prizes to be won, which include laptops and cash. To enter the competition, the written essay should be between 1 000 and 2 000 words, in any South African language, on the topic of racism. Submissions can be sent by e-mail, post or hand delivery. The closing date for submissions is March 31.The winners will be announced at a special awards ceremony in Johannesburg. Send your submissions to [email&#160;protected] with the subject Essay Submission; or fax to 086 573 3643. Submissions can be posted to Box 6804, Halfway House 1685 or hand-delivered to 69 Market Street, Kimax Building, Office 11B, Boksburg North. Entrants must include their contact details. [email&#160;protected]