Former Daily Show host Jon Stewart apparently lives under Stephen Colbert s desk now or at least, he shows up whenever his old Comedy Central pal calls him for a segment. Stewart stopped by CBS s The Late Show on Monday to mock the media s breakup with President Donald Trump, spurred by the incident last Friday when several news outlets were banned from an informal White House press briefing. It s like they say, if you love the First Amendment, set it free. If it comes back, don t let it in the press briefing, Colbert said. And the root of all this is that Trump calls any story he doesn t like fake news . All of a sudden, Stewart crawled out from under Colbert s desk. He confessed that he missed being on television. Colbert assured him that he had a spot at The Late Show any time, and pulled up a chair for his friend. Stewart spent a few minutes skewering Trump s comments from last week s combative news conference before Colbert posed a question. So you agree with me that Trump banning any members of the press is un-American? Colbert asked.Jon Stewart tells the media: stop whining and start holding Trump to account https://t.co/Je5YBn5Oy6Jon Stewart tells the media: stop whining and start holding Trump to account https://t.co/Je5YBn5Oy6 The Independent (@Independent) February 28, 2017</blockquote> Stewart switched gears. Ohhh, it s un-American not to like the press! he said mockingly. You know what I say? I say stop your whining, press! Can I talk to the media for a moment? He looked directly into the camera. Hey guys, hey media, Stewart started. So, I heard Donald broke up with you. Stings a little, doesn t it? You finally thought you d met your match. A blabbermouth who s as thin-skinned and narcissistic as you are. Well now it s over! Well, good riddance, I say! Kick him to the kerb. Cue cheering from the studio audience as Stewart went on. It is time for you to get your groove back, media. Because, let s face facts, you kind of let yourself go a little bit these past few years. You put on a few pundits, he said. Obsessing, 24 hours a day, seven days a week, about this one guy. What s Donny up to? Did he say anything about us? You think he s gonna come on our show? Do you think he even likes us? He doesn t even have to come on. He can just call us! Oh Donny, please, just let us know you re okay! He continued: And the whole time you re all chasing after Donny, the rest of us are thinking, Can t you see he s an a******? No, you try to defend him! No, no, that s just primaries Donald. That s just election Donald. You ll see. We can change him! He ll get presidential! Yeah, how d that work out? Stewart added. It didn t. And you know why? Because 70-year-old men don t get less cranky or racist as time goes by. Unless they happen to be visited by three spirits in the night. Stewart ended on an encouraging note, concluding with a pretty harsh burn. Here s my point, media. This breakup with Donald Trump has given you, the media, an amazing opportunity for self-reflection and improvement.&nbsp;&quot;Instead of worrying about whether Trump is un-American, or if he thinks you re the enemy, or if he s being mean to you, or if he s going to let you go back into the briefings, do something for yourself. Self-improvement! Take up a hobby. I recommend journalism. &nbsp; The Washington Post