The 143 security guards, who worked for Securitas SA until their dismissal in October, have since been embroiled in arbitration to reverse the decision. Yesterday, the protesting security guards were 
blocked from entering the university by police and security officers. One of the fired guards, Ntobeko Mfaxa, said it was unfair of the university to keep Securitas’s services when the workers were unable to perform their duties during the #FeesMustFall protests last year. “It was unfair dismissal as the charges were unfair and we have been without work since October last year. Other companies allowed their workers to return to their work, except Securitas, who dismissed us and replaced us with other workers,”said Mfaxa. He said the university could not distance itself from the workers’ plight when it has the power to intervene and enforce their re-employment. A worker, asking for her name to be withheld, said other companies were conducting disciplinary hearings as a tactic to remove vocal workers in the fight to end outsourcing and to put fear in their ranks. The student activists were resolute as they protested through the campus from Unibel railway station to the gates next to Symphony Way as police and security guards monitored the situation. The dismissed workers remained outside. A student activist, asking for her name to be withheld in fear of being victimised, said the students stood in solidarity with the workers as the #FeesWillFall and #EndOutsourcing movements could not be separated. She said they demanded that Securitas reinstate the dismissed workers, otherwise the university must terminate its contract. She said these were not threats, but promises that the university would experience another shutdown if it did not respond to the demands. University spokesperson Luthando Tyhalibongo said the university was informed that there was disciplinary proceedings against the security personnel due to misconduct. “The university has attempted to intervene, but the matter is currently with the CCMA. “We respect the legal process under way and await the outcome,” said Tyhalibongo. Securitas SA director Mark Sangster said the company followed its internal procedures to the letter. He said the workers decided to take the matter to the CCMA. He said all parties were awaiting the outcome of the CCMA process on Friday, after submission of arguments last week.  dominic.adriaanse@inl.co.za 