CAPE TOWN - Damian Willemse is a special kind of talent, and Godlen Masimla isn’t short on talent and skill either. Now imagine what this duo can do for the Stormers - as a halfback 
pairing. Let me say at the outset that Robbie Fleck will probably start with the likes of Robert du Preez and Dewaldt Duvenage against the Sunwolves in Singapore this weekend. But I would urge him to grab this chance to shake up the SA Rugby landscape and at the same time send out a powerful transformation message by starting with Willemse and Masimla. Willemse, an 18-year-old prodigy  who has excelled with the SA Schools and Western Province Craven Week sides, has been included in Fleck’s 25-man squad for their Round Five fixture at the National Stadium on Saturday. The Paul Roos product impressed during the Stormers’ pre-season games, and since then Fleck has spoken a lot about the teen’s potential. But it wasn’t just big talk about a young flyhalf who was the undisputed SA junior star last year, or one of those cases where a youngster stands out immensely among his peers but doesn’t quite cut it in senior rugby. No, Willemse is 
different. And against the Kings two weeks ago, he backed up Fleck’s optimism and all that talk of him being such a big deal that has been doing the rounds since rugby fans first saw him at junior level  (or since they saw that “future star” YouTube tribute - I see it’s been viewed quite a lot). And he backed it up in five minutes. He came on as a late replacement in Port Elizabeth, and in the short time he was on the field he made an immediate impact. His dangerous feet, top handling skills and his high work-rate were there for all to see. Now again - imagine what he can do, if he actually gets a decent chance. More time to boost the Stormers’ attack. More time to show off his great offloading skills, his ability to beat defenders with that inside-outside step, and that speed that has left defenders grabbing at nothing so often. And he can get rid of defenders with a strong fend. Fleck has said that he doesn’t want to put too much pressure on Willemse and that he wants to ease him into Super Rugby. But Willemse needs game time to grow and the sooner he’s exposed to Super Rugby, the better. The same can be said about Masimla. Fleck has included flyhalves Kurt Coleman, Robert du Preez and Willemse for the match against the Sunwolves, while Dewaldt Duvenhage and Masimla are the scrumhalf options for the tour. But quite frankly, all but Willemse and Masimla have been given enough opportunities to prove themselves, so it’s time to give these guys a chance. And why not test them properly against the Sunwolves this weekend, at nine and 10? Masimla has shown what he can do. He has Currie Cup experience and, although not nearly enough of it for player like him, he has some Super Rugby experience as well. Masimla possesses great speed, he has a superb step and he has shown that if you move off him, he’ll make you pay for it. His defence is solid. And, importantly, his speed across the ground and around the fringes is class. I don’t see why a player like that should be kept around for nothing. These are two guys who can do great things for the Stormers, especially if the Stormers are serious about building on their attacking game (and it’s clear that they are). If you want to play attacking rugby, you have to be brave and take chances. The risk factor is built in. I hope Fleck is prepared to roll the dice. Masimla and Willemse deserve a chance, and there’s no better time than this weekend.   Cape Times