Parliament s watchdog public accounts committee, Scopa, has summoned Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini for questioning on the impending welfare grant crisis.Dlamini was due to brief the committee on Tuesday, along with the South African Social Security Agency, but failed to appear, sending the director-general of Social Development Zane Dangor instead.We have written to Minister Dlamini to appear b4 Scopa next Tuesday . SASSA matter more urgent. She is creating tension. She wil be stoppedWe have written to Minister Dlamini to appear b4 Scopa next Tuesday . SASSA matter more urgent. She is creating tension. She wil be stopped Themba Godi (@themba_godi) March 1, 2017</blockquote> Scopa chairman Themba Godi said he had sent a letter to the minister and was sure she would oblige the committee.In his letter to her, Godi said the officials who attended on Tuesday had been unable to answer questions in full on Sassa s contract with Cash Paymaster Services, which it has decided to renew in spite of warnings from National Treasury that the procurement process would be unlawful.MPs across the political spectrum were angered by her absence, while Godi noted that there was a patent preference to engage CPS, wiping other options off the table and said this left political questions to answer.Sassa had been due to take over payment of welfare grants to more than 17 million beneficiaries from April 1 but has conceded it is not ready to do so. It began formal negotiations with CPS, a subsidiary of Net1, on Wednesday. A special cabinet meeting will be convened next week for National Treasury and the Social Development Department to give a full account of the controversy surround the payment of welfare grants come April 1, Presidency Minister Jeff Radebe said on Thursday.Radebe, who was briefing journalists on Wednesday s cabinet meeting, said a comprehensive report from all teams involved was expected. The matter was raised in cabinet yesterday (Wednesday), but it was decided we ll have a special time next week to discuss the matter in all its complexities with all the teams that have been involved in this matter, he said.He deferred questions on the looming crisis on ensuring grant payments beyond the end of this month until after the special meeting. African News Agency