The explosion in digital healthcare innovation will within the next few years reduce doctors workloads and overall healthcare costs five-fold, speed up diagnoses by the same margin and totally reinvent the way medicine is practised, saving billions of rand.This is according to Dr Jonathan Broomberg, chief executive of Discovery Health, in a presentation to journalists in Johannesburg last week on how the digital revolution was transforming medicine. He said new technology could empower patients to take responsibility for their health and enable doctors and caregivers to intervene almost instantly via individual wearable (or ingestible) automatic devices that monitored and transmitted in real time anything from the gut biome, heart-rate, stress and insulin levels, to the amount of movement or its absence. These data-rich innovations, led by non-healthcare companies like Google and Amazon, would enable clinicians to discover patterns and causes of diseases, plus predict longevity, in ways we have no idea of today , Broomberg said.SOPHISTICATED: A doctor operates on a patient with a surgical robot in Hefei, Anhui province. Technology is playing a growing role in the overhaul of China s healthcare sector. Picture: Reuters The approach of most modern doctors was a far cry from universal treatment based on medical textbooks where everybody was treated the same way a mere 10 years ago. The digital revolution and its attendant device-connectivity was already decreasing preventable hospital admissions, predicting health and resulting in early interventions when warning signs appeared. Broomberg gave the example of sensors installed in an elderly person s bed, toilet, fridge and front door (besides wearables and/or ingestibles ), enabling a connected caregiver to monitor anything unusual.A Google-inspired algorithm developed by Stanford University could today diagnose a skin melanoma (cancerous or pre-cancerous) from a single photograph with the same accuracy as a certified dermatologist, taking 15 seconds instead of the 15-minute face-to-face consultation.Discovery Health s HealthID digital platform, which has been in place for four years, enables the sharing of patient data (with patient permission), between physicians and funders, and would shortly incorporate HealthTap , which uses artificial intelligence to provide relevant answers to patient questions.Broomberg said the same network in the US covered 105&nbsp;000 doctors across 141 specialities and incorporated five billion healthcare questions, developed over seven years. Complemented by an artificial intelligence algorithm, it fired incremental questions at a user and, based on their answers, gave a diagnosis-likelihood as a percentage. This virtual consultation could then be taken to a doctor for assessment, in most cases speeding up final diagnosis and shortening consultations. Fast becoming the most popular form of medical advice worldwide, virtual consultation comprised 80% of patients first medical contact in both Israel and parts of the US, Broomberg added. The Discovery Health chief executive said cyber-innovation in industry had completely disrupted business models, citing the Uber taxi industry and Air B&amp;B.Air Bed &amp; Breakfast started with a couple of conference delegates buying air mattresses and putting them on the floor of their flat to accommodate fellow delegates. Today it was a huge business that threatened the hotel industry.Broomberg said investment in digital healthcare in the US came to R56.9 billion last year alone, with genomics and DNA sequencing getting the lion s share at R5.5bn.Discovery Health has announced plans to begin genome testing in partnership with global DNA sequencing leader Dr Craig Venter in the US, enabling members to send saliva samples for analysis in order to quantify their genetic susceptibility to a range of diseases.Not yet approved locally, this technology will enable members to adjust their lifestyles accordingly or take early preventative measures to reduce their risk. The HealthID app already had data-share consent from half of Discovery Health s 1.2 million members, with 2000 doctors using it every day the aim for ubiquity being 4000 members. The company had yet to capture the doctor s clinical notes and hospital records, but had loaded pathology and some radiology reports. Capturing the full patient record was the next step in bringing the industry together to streamline efficient, integrated care.