The Coalition of Civics Against Xenophobia will defy Tshwane metro police and stage a march against attacks on foreigners in Pretoria tomorrow, without permission.Under the banner, United Struggle Against Crime, Poverty And Xenophobia, the march will be the first in a series of anti-xenophobia events.However, metro police spokesperson Senior Superintendent Isaac Mahamba said the proper procedure to obtain permission had not been followed by the organisers. There must be a formal agreement between protesters and the recipients of the memorandum. The organisers failed to produce a formal agreement in that regard, Mahamba said. He warned of major consequences if the organisers forged ahead with staging an unapproved march. The organisers will be arrested should any public violence break out, said Mahamba. This was not the first time the department declined a proposed march, he said. If the organisers don t have the required documents demanded by the security cluster, the march will be turned down. Themba Ncalo, one of the organisers, said they were too far ahead with the preparations to stop the march now, and had decided to go ahead without permission.The organisers had already garnered major support from numerous neighbouring countries and embassies in the city, he said. Residents from the city, including Mamelodi and Atteridgeville, are also expected to attend. Ironically, these were the two groups that participated in a march against illegal foreigners that turned violent a fortnight ago. We must take a firm stand to denounce the violence and embrace unity, said Ncalo.He said xenophobia was part of the lingering destructive colonial legacy .Organisations and civil rights groups, including the African Diaspora Forum, have come together to slam the violence on foreigners. There was mass looting of foreign-owned shops in the city.The march will start at Burgers Park from 9am and move through the parts of the CBD, ending at the Union Buildings to hand over a memorandum.