Spur Corporation on Wednesday issued an “unequivocal apology” and offered counselling to Lebohang Mabuya and her family for the incident that took place at the Texamo Spur at The Glen Shopping Centre in Johannesburg on Sunday. This comes after an incident of two parents involved in an altercation inside a restaurant captured on cellphone video went viral on social media on Human Rights Day. In the footage, Mabuya was seen engaged in a heated exchange with an unidentified White man who threatened to “klap (smack)” her if she did not discipline her child. The incident, which included profanities, occurred in front of small children and other patrons at Texamo Spur during Mabuya’s three-year-old goddaughter’s birthday party. Mabuya, a nurse by profession, justified her actions by saying that she was defending her child after the man manhandled her, though she said she was not proud of the language she used in front of children. Spur also went on to ban the male customer from all its chain restaurants nationally for his part in the altercation. In a statement on Wednesday, Spur corroborated Mabuya’s version of events that the white male had been aggressive towards her child. “We have reviewed our CCTV footage of the incident and can confirm that Ms Mabuya’s version of events is accurate; the footage shows that her child was grabbed by the male customer in an aggressive manner and his actions are unacceptable,” Spur said. “We affirm our decision to ban the male customer from our stores, physical aggression towards our customers, particularly against women and children will not be tolerated. “We acknowledge that the staff and management of the store did not sufficiently assist Ms Mabuya. We have addressed this with the store management and we are reviewing our internal procedures to ensure that restaurant staff are better equipped to manage an incident such as this. “We also recognize that Ms Mabuya apologised in recent media statements for her inappropriate language used in this incident.” Spur chief executive, Pierre van Tonder, said they would be talking to Mabuya directly, at her convenience, and would apologise for what she and her family experienced. “We will also offer her and her family trauma counselling and any other support where we can,” van Tonder said. “I would like to again make it very clear that as an organisation we do not condone any forms of violence against women or children, irrespective of the circumstances. “As an organisation we have learnt a valuable lesson and it is my priority at this stage to ensure that should something like happen again, our staff will be sufficiently prepared.” Mabuya had earlier said she was disappointed with how the restaurant staff and management handled the incident. – African News Agency (ANA)