ANC Youth League provincial spokesperson Siyabulela Tom has pleaded not guilty to assault and two charges of crimen injuria against him.He denied assaulting a senior Traffic Services official at a routine roadblock in Green Point in July last year. Tom, through his lawyer Nicolas Dolo, said he never racially abused officer Jeremy Minnie. Minnie testified that law enforcement officials stopped a vehicle in which Tom was a passenger. The driver, Sakhumzi Nobatana, was requested to do an alcohol test, to determine whether he was driving under the influence of alcohol. Constable Henrich Pretorius is the second witness in the trial of Siyabulela Tom #sabcwc pic.twitter.com/uUtHjtAqvQConstable Henrich Pretorius is the second witness in the trial of Siyabulela Tom #sabcwc pic.twitter.com/uUtHjtAqvQ Chris Mabuya (@ChrisMabuya) March 2, 2017</blockquote> Minnie said: All the signs were there. His (Nobatana's) eyes were bloodshot, he could not stand on his feet and the driver was unable to blow the breathalyser. Minnie said Nobatana kept sucking the breathalyser until Tom uttered some words in isiXhosa, but Minnie could not understand what Tom was saying. Eventually Nobatana was arrested and sent to the Sea Point police station for driving under the influence. Minnie testified that Tom started shouting, asking how he was going to get home. He advised Tom to go to the nearest police station and phone for someone to pick him up. He was shouting because he was stranded, Minnie said. Minnie said suddenly Tom shouted you are calling me a baboon? Minnie said he never heard any mention of the word baboon. According to Minnie, Tom shouted: F**k you you coloured and white people think that you are in charge. Your * **s. When Tom was told to stand away from the middle of the road, Minnie said, he shouted at a police officer, daring him to take out his gun and shoot him because that s what you guys are good for . Minnie said he felt intimidated and hurt by the manner in which Tom reacted. Dolo said Tom had only approached Minnie for a translation for Nobatana. Dolo said instructions from Tom were that Nobatana could not understand Minnie s instructions as they were uttered in Afrikaans. The case continues next week. [email&#160;protected]