In its 18th year, the much-loved festival has seen its audiences grow bigger, with fans from across the globe travelling to the country to attend, boosting the local economy. Forty artists and more than 37000 music lovers are expected during the event, which will be held across five stages at the CTICC. Cape Town Tourism Board chairperson Enver Mally said the festival would bring people together with the common purpose of listening to the various performers. He said tourism would benefit from the event, and visitors would enjoy “a slice of Cape Town life when attending”. “Well done to the organisers for ensuring that these events grow in stature from year to year. If we could do a few of these every month, seasonality would no longer be a challenge faced by the tourism sector. “Already we have many cheese and wine festivals, family fun days, market days and music concerts, so perhaps the next big event idea is just waiting to be executed.” Cape Chamber of Commerce spokesperson Dean le Grange said the boost would come mainly from the tourism and hospitality sectors. As part of the community upliftment programme, prior to the main event, a range of workshops and master classes for aspiring musicians are on offer. Workshops are facilitated, attended and supported by musicians and industry professionals, and while open to the public, pre-registration for the more specialised workshops is essential. These developmental and training workshops create a platform for participants to learn from jazz and industry masters, and is testament to the festival’s commitment to developing not only the industry, but the community as well. The festival will have various events happening in and around the Mother City, including the much-anticipated free concert at Greenmarket Square. Tickets are available online through Computicket.com for R690 per person for a single day pass. Unfortunately, weekend passes have already been sold out. Economic Opportunities MEC Alan Winde said: “The Cape Town Jazz Festival, which is supported by Wesgro, is an important fixture on our events calendar. “In 2016, in excess of 37000 people attended the festival, offering a significant boost to growth and jobs in our tourism sector. This is in line with Project Khulisa. Events are important economic catalysts, and the Cape Town Jazz Festival creates 3500 direct and indirect jobs.”  sandiso.phaliso@inl.co.za 