Zuma is expected to make appointments following recommendations by Parliament. The BMF’s move came after questions were asked about the qualifications and political affiliation of the seven candidates, based on nominations by a parliamentary ad hoc committee. Earlier this week, Minister in the Presidency Jeff Radebe fended off accusations from MPs that the Nyda had been packed with ANC Youth League members and that the process to nominate candidates had been unfair. The ad hoc committee received 487 applications, of which they shortlisted 14 and their CVs were  published on Parliament’s website. Of those 14, one was not interviewed. In a letter to Zuma, BMF provincial chairperson Andile Nomlala said it had written in January to the co-chairpersons of the ad hoc committee asking for the applications. He said he had also asked about the criteria used in the process. “Unfortunately, we never received correspondence, let alone any indication that the matter was receiving attention,” he said in his letter dated March 7. He also claimed that the letter had been discussed on television by the committee and then had read in the media about Parliament’s approval of the nomination of the candidates. Nomlala appealed to Zuma to make the ad hoc committee “respond to our questions and address our concerns prior to reaching a final decision on the matter”. In a previous letter before interviews took place, Nomlala said the BMF was concerned with the competence, experience and academic qualifications of the 14 shortlisted candidates. He said they could not have been the best of the more than 350 applicants. “Only three candidates, in our view, deserve the shortlisting, judging by the standards of the 14 published CVs,” Nomlala wrote. He charged that a university degree should be the minimum requirement for consideration to serve on the board. “This spits in the face of the thousands of black unemployed graduates who will stand by and look at such candidates being made directors of such a crucial government entity,” Nomlala added. But the ad hoc committee had in its report to Parliament acknowledged that the Nyda Act was “silent on the requirements of members to serve on the board”. It also reported to Parliament that it had set its own criteria for screening applicants and shortlisting candidates. On the the forum's letter, the committee report said it “emphasised the importance of ensuring the process is in compliance with the ANC and transparency”. Contacted for comment, Zuma’s spokesperson, Bongani Ngqulunga, said the president could not intervene on something that had not reached his attention.