Friends, family and comrades remembered Williams as a courageous youth leader on the Cape Flats during the darkest days of apartheid’s brutal repression in the mid-1980s. Williams’ death comes two weeks after that of another Struggle stalwart, Essa Moosa. His younger brother Denzil Williams remembers him as “a politician, a lawyer”. “Lawyers aren’t easy. You had to choose your words wisely (around him),” said Denzil. A former secretary to the Western Cape Legislature, Williams represented the victims of the Athlone Early Learning Centre which was bombed by the Civil Co-operation Bureau, at the Truth and Reconciliation Commission. Last year he took on former estate agent Penny Sparrow at the Equality Court on behalf of the Oliver and Adelaide Tambo Foundation. She was forced to pay a fine after her racist tirade on Facebook against black beachgoers in Durban. Williams was raised in Kewtown, Athlone and attended Silverlea Primary, later attending Belgravia High School and would complete his law degree at the University of the Western Cape. While he was in high school, Denzil remembers his older brother taking up the case of a homeless family, and managed to get them into a vacant council house through sheer will and determination. “He’s always excelled, from a young age. He was destined to achieve success,” said Denzil. Former provincial executive member of the SA Youth Congress (Sayco) Denzil de Allende remembers meeting Williams while they were both detained at the old Victor Verster prison (now Drakenstein) in 1986 while they were teenagers. “He was a committed cadre. He was an intellectual from a very young age and contributed to the youth struggles.  “Throughout (the years) he was very consistent and a loyal member of the SA Youth Congress,” said De Allende. Close friend Lawrence Muller says he met Williams in 1985 at Belgravia High School. “Pupils were boycotting classes and I taught him and the others to toyi-toyi,” Muller remembers. While Williams was detained in 1986, most of his comrades had gone into hiding. “People thought that once he was detained he would squeal but he never did,” said Muller. He last saw his friend on Monday after he had been moved to a private room at Vincent Pallotti Hospital in Pinelands. “I kissed him, and he smiled. I told him, ‘brother, it’s time to go’”.