A Proactive Land Acquisition Strategy (PLAS) beneficiary, Andre Cloete has made great successes in the farming industry since he started as a lessee of Klein Ezeljacht farm, located outside Greyton in the Overberg District. The farm was acquired by the Department of Rural Development and Land Reform in December 2007, through its Proactive Land Acquisition Strategy which seeks to acquire high value land for farming purposes. The department bought 871 hectares of land in which apples and pears, wheat, barley and oats are grown.One part of the farm is suitable for livestock farming. According to Cloete, 60% of their Royal Gala Apples and Peckham Pears are exported to Germany while 40% are sold locally.Golden Delicious Apples go to African markets, mainly Nigeria. Produce that is not sold is processed into fruit juice.HIGH VALUE FARMING: Klein Ezeljacht farm was acquired by the Department of Rural Development and Land Reform in December 2007 through its Proactive Land Acquisition Strategy which seeks to acquire high value land for farming purposes. Cloete supplies apples and pears to the export market through Tru-Cape South Africa. When he started on the farm, he was producing 45 tons of produce a hectare and the produce has since doubled to 90 tons. Cloete has also won awards including farmer of the year awarded by Toyota last year. According to the farmer, he has always had a love for farming and believes the business has the potential to grow significantly. Farming at Klein Ezeljacht has had its fair share of challenges and Cloete says he has had to make many sacrifices along the way. According to the farmer, when he took over the property it was in a state of disrepair, requiring among others, repairs to the faulty irrigation system and the planting of new orchards. Drought conditions have also had a negative impact on the farm, cutting production by 20%. Farmworkers in the area have also benefited from jobs that the farm has created. When Cloete took over the farm in 2008, there were only five workers, but now there are 14 full-time employees and 70 seasonal workers. Nkasayi is Deputy Director: Communication Support Services, Department of Rural Development and Land Reform