Schoombie, 27, was dragged from an Uber taxi, severely beaten, left in the street by his assailants and died in hospital four days later after falling into a coma owing to his head injuries. Brent Henry and Juane Jacobs were convicted of murder last week by Western Cape High Court Judge Robert Henney, for the assault on Schoombie after he left the Tiger Tiger nightclub in Claremont in November 2015. Speaking to the Cape Times, Carl’s brother Lee Schoombie, 28, said the family were still “broken” by the murder of their loved one. “Since this journey towards justice started 16 months ago, we never doubted the outcome would be just. We knew a guilty judgment would be achieved, especially after the second suspect was arrested last year,” said Lee. He said his brother  was a swimming coach at Michael Oak Waldorf School, and had a degree in Mechatronics in Engineering from UCT and a BCom in management science from Stellenbosch University. Their mother, Carol Schoombie, made a desperate plea to the media to help in the search for the second suspect at the time. She said police were unable to capture the man who had gone on the run. “We are seeking assistance in the capture and conviction of the suspect. "I feel the power of media is going to be a turning point in my son's case,” the e-mail plea read. Lee said the media, along with their efforts on social media, was pivotal in bringing the second suspect to justice and keeping the matter in the public eye during the months in and out of court. “Our mother's pleas as well as our own Facebook page ‘Prayers for Carl’ helped our quest for justice. We want to thank everyone out there who sent us countless messages of support and gave us shares on social media,” said Lee. He said family members were  still dealing with their loss, but they would be at court for sentencing next month. “Our mother is not doing too well but my father, sister and I will be present and at whatever law proceedings that might follow. "We are receiving counselling at this time and in future hope to help other families to receive the justice we have,” said Lee. He cited the vicious murders of Sinoxolo Mafevuka from Khayelitsha in 2016 and Rene-Tracy Roman from Lavender Hill more recently as motivation for their planned foundation. He said that their family would require some time to set it up, but they planned to create a platform that would provide assistance to the families of victims from poor communities.  dominic.adriaanse@inl.co.za 