Van Breda stands accused of the murder of his father Martin, his mother Theresa and his older brother Rudi. His sister Marli reportedly had her neck slashed during the attack, but survived. The wealthy family were killed in their home in the De Zalze Estate outside Stellenbosch in January 2015. Van Breda has been charged with three counts of premeditated murder, attempted murder and defeating the ends of justice. The latter charge stems from allegations that he fed police false information. He first told police that his family was attacked by an axe-wielding intruder and it was reported that Van Breda himself exhibited superficial wounds, which included knife wounds. But more than a year after the killings, the 22-year-old handed himself over to police. He is on R100000 bail. The State alleges that Van Breda hacked his family members to death and attempted to kill his sister Marli. According to the indictment, raised voices were heard on the evening of January 26 at the family home. “At approximately 4.24am on Tuesday, January 27, the accused made (a) cellphone call to his girlfriend which went unanswered. "At approximately 4.27am (he) did an internet search via Google looking for emergency numbers. At approximately 7.12am, he made a series of calls from his cellphone to emergency telephone numbers and at approximately 7.38am there was a further call to his girlrfriend.” Marli is understood to have recovered and has returned to school. In previous pre-trial hearings, the State indicated it was ready for trial, but the defence needed to finalise its analysis of the evidence. Van Breda hired experts to analyse the evidence the State has against him. Last Friday, journalists and media organisations made applications to Judge Siraj Desai, who will preside over proceedings, to broadcast inside the courtroom. In a separate matter, Van Breda and his girlfriend, Daniellé Janse van Rensburg, are expected to appear in the Cape Town Magistrates' Court on April 11 on a charge of drug possession. On this charge, he is on R1 000 bail and she is on R200 bail.