Fox News host Bill O Reilly has weighed in on the mystery surrounding Nils Bildt, a recent guest on his show whom producers falsely identified as a Swedish defence and national security adviser.During an appearance on The O Reilly Factor last Thursday, Bildt argued that Muslim immigrants in Sweden had driven up crime and created social problems. But Swedish officials and national security experts quickly pointed out that Bildt did not work with the Swedish government.O Reilly sought to clear the air during his show on Monday. In a segment titled owning up to an error, he said criticism from the Swedish government and left-wing people over Bildt s qualifications was valid.Nils Bildt was billed as 'Swedish defence and national security adviser' while Bill O'Reilly was interviewing him: https://t.co/T6tgZlRauhNils Bildt was billed as 'Swedish defence and national security adviser' while Bill O'Reilly was interviewing him: https://t.co/T6tgZlRauh CBC News Alerts (@CBCAlerts) February 26, 2017</blockquote> Mr Bildt does consulting work on terrorism, that is true, but we should have clarified that he had no direct role with the Swedish government, O Reilly said. The information we gave you in the segment was accurate, but in hindsight a more relevant guest should have been used on the anti-immigrant side. Earlier on Monday, Bildt accused Fox News of making up his fake title. He said he made clear that he was an independent adviser .Fox denied the accusation, according to the Times.In his appearance last week, Bildt sparred with Anne-Sofie Naslund, a Swedish newspaper journalist, over claims that Sweden had become more dangerous in recent years due to the country s relatively soft stance on immigration. Naslund argued that Sweden was safer than O Reilly and others had portrayed it. Bildt disagreed, telling O Reilly that the country had struggled to integrate immigrants into Swedish society. The debate was prompted by comments President Donald Trump made recently during a recent rally in Florida, in which he suggested that Sweden had been attacked by terrorists. He later clarified that he was referring to a Fox News documentary that linked refugees and crime spikes in the country - a position Swedish scholars say is oversimplified.Bildt s appearance caused an immediate backlash in Sweden. The newspaper Dagens Nyheter reported that he was originally named Nils Tolling and had left the country in 1994. He was unknown to the military and the Foreign Ministry, the newspaper reported.Prominent academics and national security experts also said they d never heard of him. Initially, Fox News defended its decision to book Bildt. Our booker made numerous inquiries and spoke to people who recommended Nils Bildt and after pre-interviewing him and reviewing his bio, we agreed that he would make a good guest for the topic that evening, David Tabacoff, executive producer of The O Reilly Factor, said in a statement. The network said later that O Reilly would address the controversy on his Monday show, a promise he made good on.Fox News recently came under fire when another one of its guests was exposed as having faked his credentials. For years, Wayne Simmons made unpaid appearances on The O Reilly Factor and other shows as a purported former CIA operative, commenting on terrorism and national security issues, including the 2012 attack on a US diplomatic compound in Benghazi, Libya.In 2015, he was charged with fabricating a 27-year career with the CIA and pleaded guilty to fraud last year. Fox News distanced itself from Simmons when the charges came down.Academic Robert Egnell, who had studied with Bildt at King s College London in 2002, said that Bildt had left the programme early and moved to Japan, after which they had gradually lost touch. He is in not in any way a known quantity in Sweden and has never been part of the Swedish debate, Egnell said. He has not lived in Sweden for a very long time and no one within the Swedish security community (which is not a very big pond) seems to know him. - The Washington Post