A group of New Crossroads residents went on the rampage, allegedly attacking paramedics and robbing a food delivery truck during a protest against what they described as police brutality yesterday. The protest had been prompted by the killing of mother-of-three Phumza Pita allegedly by a police officer at the weekend.Yesterday, residents barricaded streets with burning tyres, large rocks and rubble. The area was on a lockdown as trucks were pelted with rocks and some hijacked. Deputy Police Minister Maggie Sotyu s visit to Pita s family has been rescheduled after she was advised of the unrest. Her spokesperson, Nomsa Hani, said Sotyu could not break protocol. She said they had been shown pictures of what had happened in the area. Paramedics declared the area a red zone and no emergency vehicle will enter the Nyanga area without a police escort until 7am today.Pita, 31, was allegedly killed when she questioned the conduct of the officers who were shutting down a shebeen in Koornhof Street. Her uncle Masixole was wounded during the incident. The Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) said police were shutting down an illegal shebeen at Koornhof Street, New Crossroads, in Gugulethu when patrons allegedly became riotous. Police called for back-up. EMS provincial spokesperson Robert Daniels said an emergency service vehicle was stoned on the corner of Eisleben and Lansdowne Road in Nyanga yesterday. One of the bricks flung at the ambulance entered the cabin and hit the emergency medical practitioner in her back. The other crew member was left uninjured but traumatised.&quot; A case has been opened with the South African Police Service, said Daniels. An attack on a paramedic is an attack on an entire community. As part of Operation Khuseleka (Keep Safe) we appeal to communities to come forward and help identify these perpetrators. New Crossroads ward councillor Luvuyo Zondani said Sotyu s visit would have calmed things down as residents wanted to be addressed by a senior person from the SAPS. The deputy minister was misled by people who said it was not safe for her to visit the family. There are criminal elements. We do not support people who are hijacking alcohol trucks. There is no reason for them to target food delivery trucks. We had briefed the family and explained to them that the deputy minister would visit them. He said the situation was getting out of control and the police were starting to use force. There is nothing much I can do. We have pleaded several times with residents and explained to them that the matter is being handled by the Ipid. &nbsp;Police said cases of malicious damage to property were opened for investigation after protesters stoned and damaged passing vehicles in Robert Sobukwe Road.