Outspoken ANC MP Makhosi Khoza is not intimidated by the KwaZulu-Natal provincial executive committee's decision not to withdraw a disciplinary hearing against her. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. "They said they are going ahead with charging me‚ irrespective of the fact that they are illegitimate. On Sunday they are expecting me to appear, but I am still consulting with my lawyers and I don't have any more comments on that," Khoza said. Speaking on the sidelines of the third annual Southern African Metals and Engineering Indaba on Thursday, Khoza said she believed the country deserved better leaders who would be brave enough to tackle societal problems head-on. "I honestly don't believe that if you are a coward you can lead other people. And I believe that we have had too many people who are cowards and who are very fearful. "We now need to step up. If there is one thing that nobody can do is to intimidate me, I'm not intimidatable (sic)." This comes as the disciplinary hearing against Khoza by the embattled ANC KZN was postponed last weekend to next Sunday after she did not pitch, citing death threats against her. The Pietermaritzburg High Court declared “unlawful and void” the 2015 conference which elected the ANC provincial executive committee in KZN where former chairperson Senzo Mchunu was ousted and replaced with Sihle Zikalala. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The court ruling, which came as a result of some branches challenging irregularities in the running of the conference, threw a spanner in the works for the upcoming 54th National Conference of the ANC in December where new leadership will be elected. But the ANC in KZN has vowed to appeal the court ruling despite the party’s national executive council (NEC) not giving it its blessing. Khoza was charged in July for, among other things, ill-discipline, failing to comply with ANC policy, provoking division and bringing the party into disrepute, with all but one of these relating to posts she made on her Facebook page. She has been a vehement critic of President Jacob Zuma and his fitness to lead the ANC. Her provocative behaviour has earned Khoza many critics, but has also seen her garner a large and sympathetic group of supporters. As a panellist at the indaba, Khoza criticised what she termed a "morally deficient" leadership and called for a "people-centred government". African News Agency