Kagiso Masubelele, KFC mini-cricket co-ordinator, and Laudium Hub head coach Obed Harvey Agbomadzie, both 27, have said they had no clue what happened on that fateful night, according to police. Police spokesperson Captain Augustinah Selepe said yesterday  the two men were now conscious but both told police they did not see anything on the night of the attack. Coaches Given Nkosi, 24, and Charles Maseko, 25, were found dead in the clubhouse bathroom. The Laudium community and the cricket fraternity were left reeling after the gruesome discovery at 7am on Thursday. Resident Umar Assad, who went there to practise cricket, stumbled upon the dead men. Preliminary investigations revealed Nkosi and Maseko died of head injuries suffered during the attack. Nothing was stolen from the clubhouse. Speculation in the community was that the men were bludgeoned with training equipment. Titans chief executive Jacques Faul said the entire staff was shocked at hearing the news of the deaths and attack on members of their club, which had been in high spirits after winning the Momentum eKasi Challenge Cup the day before.  He said Masubelele had been picked as the announcer when they played in the Jukskei derby against the Highveld Lions in Hammans-
kraal. “One of the injured men has always been crucial to cricket development and had a sparkling personality, hence we asked him to step in as the announcer for the game,” Faul said, following news of the attack. Nkosi’s mother Linah said although she was devastated, her son had said he would die playing cricket - and ironically the cricket club was where his life ended. Maseko’s uncle, Jan Masemola, said the family were attempting to come to terms with his nephew’s death. “Ever so often they will faint or break out in tears “It’s still difficult for us to believe that he is really dead,” he said. Masemola said Maseko’s funeral service would be held at the Mbolekwa Sports Complex in Atteridgeville on Saturday, starting at 7am. Meanwhile, the funeral service for Nkosi will be at 7am at the Mamelodi Community Hall on Saturday. He will be buried at B3 Cemetery. Selepe said no arrests had yet been made.  The motive for the attack was still unknown. Pretoria News