More than 20 mall robberies have occurred in Gauteng over the past six months, with most incidents still under investigation. In under a week, Mall of the South was hit twice by armed robbers who targeted its jewellery and cellphone stores. The latest incident was on Saturday. The first robbery happened last Monday at about 9pm when seven suspects with their faces covered entered the mall with crowbars and hammers. They smashed the front window of Cajees Jewellery and made off with an undisclosed number of goods. The incident took about a minute and a half. The suspects opened fire on the security guards who tried to stop them, said Mall of the South centre manager Hester Smith. On Saturday at about midday, another armed robbery occurred at the Telkom store. “The suspects entered the mall through the back passage, pretending to be tenant staff. “They entered the Telkom store as customer, showed the staff a firearm and fled with an undisclosed amount of goods, using a silver Audi,” said Smith. No one was injured in the two incidents. Mall of The South opened in 2015, yet there have been 10 robberies. Other malls that have also recently been hit by brazen robberies include Mall of Africa in Midrand, Greenstone and Hyde Park shopping centres. Greenstone mall was was hit on Sunday last week. The mall’s Donna Lebenon confirmed that armed men robbed a Telkom store and fled with an undisclosed amount of goods. “One suspect was apprehended by security guards at the adjacent premises. Four other suspects escaped. The SAPS is still investigating,” said Lebenon. Aware of the high rate of mall crimes, she said the shopping centre was doing its best to ensure the safety of staff and customers. Gareth Newham, head of the Justice and Violence Prevention Programme at the Institute for Security Studies, said there had been a 104.5%. increase in armed robberies since the 2010/11 period. There were 399 recorded robberies in 2010/11 compared to 816 in 2016/17. “There has been a 104.5% increase since 2010/11 and it’s a growing problem. “All kinds of robberies have been going up, from burglaries, pavement robberies, hijackings and cash heists.” Newham said the problem may not only lie with the malls’ security but also with local authorities. The head of Crime Risk Initiative, Consumer Goods Council of SA, Abraham Nelson, said robbers always favoured high value and easy to sell goods, such as jewellery and cellphone stores, hence the frequency of such incidents. He said his organisation was working with the SA Council of Shopping Centres, police and  security companies on additional measures and tactics to deal with the robberies. “Security tactics are being continually reviewed based on risk analysis.”