Last Friday, KPMG South Africa appointed Dlomu as its new chief executive. Dlomu said that she was committed to restore the embattled audit firm’s fundamental values of ethics and integrity in a bid to salvage the firm’s credibility as she takes over the helm at a time of deepening crisis. This came as Trevor Hoole tendered his resignation last Friday as the chief executive KPMG SA, with chief operating officer and country risk management partner Steven Louw also stepping down. Five other senior partners of KPMG SA also decided to leave the firm. KPMG SA would also be taking disciplinary action seeking the dismissal of Jacques Wessels, the lead partner on the audits of the non-listed Gupta entities. KPMG received criticism regarding the “Sars Report” in which it was commissioned by the Sars to investigate allegations of a rogue unit allegedly set up by Pravin Gordhan, who was Sars commissioner at the time. At the time, Gordhan welcomed the withdrawal of the controversial report and said that he was surprised by the “scant regard” shown by the firm for their role in the “capture” of the revenue service and the “huge damage that it has done to the livelihoods and reputations of a very professional, honest and loyal group of public servants”. “It is unfortunate that a company with the stature of KPMG, with a responsibility and obligation to be objective, has been found to be wanting. This is exacerbated by their collaboration with the Gupta family,” Gordhan said in a statement at the time. “So let me categorically state, that which KPMG ought to have had the integrity and honesty to state: the Research and Investigative unit created in the South African Revenue Service (Sars) was legal; its activities in detecting and combating the illicit tobacco trade and other efforts aimed at bringing an end to tax evasion, were within the law; [and] KPMG had no basis, except subservience to a malicious Sars management, to malign a number of individuals and facilitate, I repeat, the capture of a vital state institution.” He said that he would be seeking legal advice. In December 2014, KPMG SA was commissioned by the Sars to perform an extensive document investigative review which resulted in the “Report on Allegations of Irregularities and Misconduct”. Gordhan was investigated by the Hawks over the alleged unit, but was eventually charged with an administrative issue over the rehiring of former deputy commissioner Ivan Pillay and his pension package. KPMG said that the evidence in the documentation provided did not support the interpretation that Gordhan knew, or ought to have known, of the “rogue” nature of this unit. KPMG said it recognised and regretted the impact its report has had, and that it had “no political motivation or intent to mislead”. KPMG then “offered to repay the R23 million fee” it received for the work performed for Sars, or “to make a donation for the same amount to charity”. KPMG was also criticised for having four of its partners attend the lavish Gupta wedding at Sun City in 2013 while it was auditing a Gupta-owned Linkway Trading, which was implicated in siphoning millions of rand from a Free State dairy farm project to fund the wedding. African News Agency