MPs are losing patience with "superior" ministers and their deputies who seemingly refuse to account to the national legislature and its committees. This week legislators called for tough action to be meted out against the errant executives. One MP even suggested that truant ministers be dragged to Parliament even if they were kicking and screaming. There have been a series of complaints of ministers not attending parliamentary sessions to answer to questions and respond to members' motions as well as meetings. One leading culprit is International Relations and Co-operation Minister Maite Nkoane-Mashabane, who again snubbed a parliamentary session despite leader of government business, Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa, and the chief whips forum calling on her to attend. She instead went to Vietnam and sent one of her deputies. State Security Minister David Mahlobo then took her place. Nkoana-Mashabane has yet to appear before the portfolio committee to explain her decision to grant diplomatic immunity to Zimbabwe’s First Lady Grace Mugabe last month. Parliamentarians are also want answers from Public Service and Administration minister Faith Muthambi after she did not attend a portfolio committee to account on reports that she flew family and friends at taxpayers expense to attend her budget vote. Ramaphosa had to field parliamentary questions from the opposition who want action, preferably her dismissal. Also this week the social development portfolio committee took a dim view on deputy minister Hendrietta Bogopane-Zulu's absence and communications Deputy Minister Thandi Mahambehlala did not pitch before her portfolio committee. Responding to parliamentary questions, Ramaphosa said those who missed scheduled meetings without reasonable explanation could be sanctioned by the national legislature. He wished that cabinet and Parliament could maintain a good track record and disputes be resolved to ensure accountability. On Thursday, Nkoana-Mashabane's absence was raised in the parliamentary programming committee. The DA's John Steenhuisen said he was disappointed the minister snubbed the parliament despite correspondence from Ramaphosa and the chief whips forum urging her to attend. "She is not accountable to Vietnam. She is accountable to this Parliament," he said. "It is a disgrace that the minister can go a whole a year without appearing in Parliament.". ANC chief whip Jackson Mthembu said there should be consequences for those who failed to account to Parliament. "It is something our rules must look at. They need to be sharpened. We can't be complaining like like little babies forever. We must bring this matter to a halt for those who show parliament the middle finger," Mthembu said. "You find some people are too superior to appear before Parliament. Steenhuisen said parliament has powers subpoena and called on Parliament flex its muscles. "Then next time they will think twice," he said. His colleague, Mike Waters, who said Parliament should bring the minister in kicking and screaming if she doesn’t to come on a voluntary basis. 