Ammarah is happy and positive despite the battle she and her family have fought since her diagnosis. She loves watching cartoons, the occasional horror movie, and “never gets sick of KFC”. In June this year, after an unsuccessful haploidentical stem cell transplant, doctors told her parents there was nothing more that could be done for their little girl. “It’s painful. No one ever wants to see their child suffer. She’s such a smart girl too. We explained everything to her and we knew there was a 50/50 chance because we couldn’t find a complete match,” said Ammarah’s mother, Nuraan Gordon. She recalls how her daughter’s symptoms began. “It all started with severe nose bleeds, which she thought was due to her sinuses, and blue bruises on her body,” she said. After multiple tests the family was given the “devastating” news: Ammarah had leukaemia. Since then, Ammarah has spent three Eids (Muslim religious holiday) and her birthday in hospital. Up until August 16, she was still doing her school work from her hospital bed. Since then her illness has kept her out of school permanently. During the search for a bone marrow donor, Ammarah had to undergo five rounds of chemotherapy and eight sessions of radiation. “It’s unfair but I can’t question it; what’s most important is that she doesn’t suffer or have pain”. After the failed transplant the doctors said a second one would be too hard on Ammarah’s body. “Now we’re just making the most of the time we have,” Nuraan said. Ammarah lost all of her hair due to the chemo and radiation. In spite of all this, the outspoken former-Grade 5 pupil said she wants to become a doctor, so that she can 
help other people who are 
ill like her. Describing her experiences, Ammarah said: “The worst part is the needles, spending my birthday and Eid in hospital, and people who stare at me because of my hair. When people stared I felt embarrassed and shy; now when they stare at me, I stare back at them until they stop looking. Now I say ‘It’s fine, look at me! I’m famous!’” said Ammarah. She loves drawing and colouring in but misses school. A former York Road primary school pupil, Ammarah says: “I would’ve been back at school and playing soccer with my brother. I miss school the most. I love maths and English and I’m good at geography. I always got a 7,” she said. Expressing a wisdom beyond her years, Ammarah appears to have made peace with her own mortality. “Hakuna matata,” she says in a video posted on her Facebook page. “If I’m happy, what do you have to be sad about?” Her Facebook page is a way of reaching out to others and sharing what she is going through. On it, she offers inspiration and courage to others who might be struggling the way she has. In a poem she wrote True Feelings of Ammarah’’, she says: “In the beginning I was so nervous about being pricked. I was nervous about the first day of radiation too. I was scared because I didn’t know what it was like. I get scared because I don’t want to leave this place yet,” she wrote. In the meantime, her parents are doing their best to make her life as comfortable as possible. “Doctors can treat her but only God can heal her. We’re picking ourselves up and living life in the now,” said Nuraan. The mom of two said she’s amazed by how strong and mature her daughter has become. “In the 13 months since she’s become sick she hasn’t ever asked us ‘why is this happening to me?’ “The one blessing is that this has brought our family closer. We were a family that was always on the go but I love being at home with the family now.” sHE highlighted the need for more registered blood and bone marrow donors. Haematologist Charlotte Ingram, medical director for the South African Bone Marrow Registry, said there is a shortage of bone marrow donors in the country. “South Africa, as you are aware, is a rainbow nation comprised of many ethnic groups with mixed ancestry. In fact, the South African Bone Marrow Registry (SABMR) is ranked third in the world for diversity,” she said. “This means that South Africa needs more donors to be able to find the right combination of genetic factors to be the perfect match for a patient in need of a transplant. Your chance of finding a match is generally estimated to be around 1:100000. However, in South Africa we estimate the need to be even more, probably approaching 1:400000. South Africa only has 73400 donors so the registry is in need of many more donors.” Ammarah said she’s looking forward to going to the zoo to see her favourite animals. “I’m excited to go to the zoo and see the giraffes and all the other animals. I’ll be even more excited if I can go in an Elsa Frozen Princess costume because I’m a princess and eat KFC,” she said. Follow Ammarah’s journey on her Facebook page, Ammarah Gordon’s Legacy.  ragheemah.arends@inl.co.za 