The campaign aims to preserve this national treasure through hosting storytelling performances and events across the country this month and is inviting members of the public, young and old, to join them by telling the traditional stories they remember being told, or to have fun making up new ones. Apart from the competition, more than 8000 children’s storybooks and story cards - a deck of playing cards to make up their own story - will be given away at the event. The Nal’ibali main story-telling event will be held at the Guga S’thebe cultural centre in Langa on September 21. Nal’ibali managing director Jade Jacobsohn  said: “Storytelling is a forerunner for children’s literacy learning in all languages and forms part of our national heritage. Many of our traditional stories, historically told by grandparents around fires, feature characters such as the jackal and the hare, wise old men and greedy giants. “Starting with different phrases - once upon a time or kwathi ke kaloku ngantsomi, kwasuka sukela - these stories have been passed down from generation to generation by word of mouth and are in danger of being lost. “Our stories are an important part of our heritage and collective culture,” said Jacobsohn. Today, on National Literacy Day, the campaign will do a roadshow at the Cape Town Central Library. As part of the campaign, Nal’ibali literacy mentors will be hosting community events, helping the campaign to collect its goal of 5000 stories. To add to the excitement, Nal’ibali will be conducting the FUNda Leader reading for enjoyment trainings in each region as a precursor to the Story Bosso events. A main prize of R5000, a R1000 book voucher, R500 airtime and a Story Bosso cap will be awarded to the overall Story Bosso winner. There will be eight provincial winners, each receiving a R1000, a R5000 book voucher, R250 airtime and a Story Bosso cap. Submit your entry before the end of the month as an audio or video clip on the campaign’s website www.nalibali.org.za  lonwabo.marele@inl.co.za 