There is no police efficiency in South Africa because the police department is essentially dysfunctional, while the ANC fails to hold society together and enforce the rule of law because it is itself a "collective of criminals", the EFF said on Saturday. "The EFF is appalled at the state of lawlessness in South Africa. From top leaders in the highest echelons of government who steal public funds and nothing happens to them; to the lowest thugs on our streets who are breaking the law in full view of everyone and nothing happens to them," EFF spokesman Mbuyiseni Quintin Ndlozi said.
 
"In one week, a prominent political leader died, shot by assassins defending corruption in Mzimkhulu, [in KwaZulu-Natal]. Although he died this week, Sindiso Magaqa was shot, together with other two councillors, over a month ago. Yet no arrests have been made," he said. 
 
This week in Tshwane, criminals hijacked municipal refuse removal trucks and dumped refuse on the roads. They did this to frustrate the work of the municipality because their tender applications were not successful. Still, no arrests were made and there were no consequences for their actions.
 
Metered taxi drivers in Sandton were torching Uber taxi cars and assaulting Uber drivers in full view of police. Still, no arrests were made and there were no consequences for those who broke the law, Ndlozi said. 
 
Bodyguards of an ANC secretary in eThekwini brandished guns in public, some of which were illegal in the country, while "threatening death on others". They had the audacity to even make a video of the incident and post it on social media. To this day, they had not been arrested for openly breaking the law. 
 
"All the while our Ministry of Police is a social media clubhouse. On the ground, there is absolutely no police efficiency because, in essence, the department is dysfunctional," he said. "The ANC is failing to hold society together and enforce the rule of law because it is itself a collective of criminals. Ordinary people's lives are frustrated because criminality is now the order of the day. "The ANC is scared of criminals, it is run by criminals, and it rewards criminals. As a result, it is surrendering every aspect of society into criminals and criminality.
 
"Society must be defended from a criminal government and the criminals who deny our people services and basic freedoms. We must reclaim our lives and institute street committees of people's power to push back against crime. "We are on our own because the ministry of police is only interested in social media," Ndlozi said. African News Agency