Jikelo’s winning entry, selected from among 5 000 entries from 76 countries was a stunning image from a Grabouw housing protest. The Cape Times used it in the masthead. Jikelo is now with sister organisation the African News Agency (ANA). The contest aims to support young photographers and to draw public attention to the challenges of photojournalism in today’s world. It was organised by the Rossiya Segodnya International Information Agency in conjunction with Unesco. Jikelo, 33, said winning the award was an honour and an acknowledgement of hard work. He was grateful to have won. “I feel so humble after winning the Top News category. I am the first African to do so. Winning an international award is a great achievement. I did not expect to win but I had hoped that one day I will win something big. It was my first time outside the borders of South Africa and I enjoyed the trip so much,” said Jikelo. Cape Times editor Aneez Salie said: “When Phando returned to Cape Town on Saturday after receiving his award in Moscow, it was to a surprise party his colleagues had arranged, and which he so richly deserved. It is his fifth award, and he is line line for a sixth. “Well done again to Phando. Thanks for making us proud and for proving once again that we are among the best in the world, no matter what our competitors and the racists may say. "We also thank our Russian colleagues and fellow Brics members for arranging the competition and for warmly hosting Phando and Ian Landsberg, the ANA head of photography, last week in Moscow.” Jikelo is in line for another major honour as he has been announced as a finalist of this year’s Standard Bank Sikuvile Journalism Awards. He was the Eastern Cape regional winner of the Vodacom Journalism Awards 2016 for photography for a portfolio on a poor, child-headed household living in a dilapidated dwelling. It prompted the Eastern Cape government into providing the children with a new house and on-going support. He won best Eastern Cape regional photography Vodacom Journalism Awards 2015 for pictures of mud schools in the Eastern Cape. Also in 2015 he won in the Standard Bank Awards in the sport category for a picture of a goalkeeper punching an opponent. His first award was the Vodacom Journalism Awards  2014 for photography in the Western Cape  while working for the Daily Voice. His winning entry captured a protest over lack of sanitation in townships.