The State referred to the abalone syndicate as “The Enterprise”, of which it argued Philip Miller, Willem van Rensburg, Adriaan Wildschutt, Tony du Toit, Johannes Liebenberg, Rodeny Onkruid, Desmond Pienaar and Gregory Abrahams were members. They were tried in the Western Cape High Court on 116 charges collectively. In its papers the State said The Enterprise employed people to collect, clean, dry, freeze and store abalone, which was then prepared and packaged into containers and exported to Hong Kong using front companies Rapitrade 109 Pty (Ltd); and Syroun Exports Pty (Ltd). Fraudulent documentation was created which stated the containers carried pilchards. The State argued that Miller was in a position of authority - responsible for arranging and directing The Enterprise's exports. Van Rensburg, Wildschutt, Du Toit, and Liebenberg were the “processing managers” and were responsible for abalone procurement, packaging and preparation. They had operated for two years until police had followed a “heavily loaded vehicle” from Bellville South to Belhar in 2006. The vehicle was a white bakkie which belonged to a Michael Jackson, who has since died. From the State's papers, it is understood that when the bakkie stopped at Faraday Street, Belhar, police found it was overloaded were abalone. At Hercules Street, a truck carrying a blue container, marked “Kien Hung” was found and abalone was also found in the garage. Judge Patrick Gamble yesterday found Miller, Van Rensburg, Wildschutt, and Du Toit guilty of Poca (Prevention of organised Crime) and various other charges. Liebenberg was found guilty of contravening the Marine Living Resources Act, while Abrahams, Pienaar, and Onkruid were found not guilty. Other members of The Enterprise - Jerry Witbooi, Jerome Browne and Ashely Browne - were found in possession of 5050 abalone on a farm in Stellenbosch in 2006 and entered into a plea agreement with the State in March that year. The men in court yesterday were each out on bail, which has been extended until sentencing proceedings start next month. The State did not oppose this. Miller was not in court yesterday as he is sick and his legal representative, Lara Joubert, asked for about six weeks before sentencing proceedings so as to request a correctional supervision report from the Department of Correctional Services. Before adjourning for the day yesterday, the court heard that Van Rensburg had two previous convictions: one for contravening the Sea Fishing Act in 1998 and one for assault, for which he paid an admission of guilt fine. Wildschutt was previously found to have contravened the Marine Resources Act, while Du Toit had prior convictions, including three for theft and three for fraud.  francesca.villette@inl.co.za 