Le Roux had sung this song to Adam as a child. Adam died at the age of 15 last Friday. He had cerebral palsy, a neurological disorder caused by a non-progressive brain injury or malformation that occurs while the child’s brain is under development. Adam couldn’t talk and was bound to a wheelchair. The service was held at the Church of the Transfiguration in Bellville, and in attendance was Archbishop Emeritus Desmond Tutu, Cape Town mayor Patricia de Lille, Premier Helen Zille, and various provincial MECs. Many from the disabled community, whose lives had been touched by Adam’s life and story, were also in attendance. The church was filled to capacity, with mourners standing outside. Greeting Tutu warmly, Le Roux sobbed in his arms in grief. Adam’s godmother Lucia Hess-April said Adam was diagnosed with cerebral palsy at six months.    “To hear the news that a child’s health status may be compromised, and that he or she may not be able to fulfil certain expectations is difficult for any parent and those close to him. "However, we came to the realisation that we needed to let go of our ideas of who we wanted him to be. And so, Adam was embraced fully and loved unconditionally for who he was,” she said. There were times that the Le Roux-George household was turned upside down, as they dealt with the realities of caring for a child with cerebral palsy, she said, but never did any challenge outweigh the blessing that was Adam. “While the rest of the world saw only suffering and tragedy in his disability, all that we saw was an adorable son, brother, nephew and friend. “Adam was the centre of his family as his mother ensured that he fully participated in all family life. All who visited the house were instinctively drawn to him. "In his unique way, he was a loud and noisy conversationalist; he had the gentlest of smiles, and the ability to laugh with full abandon, especially when he heard the theme song of 7de Laan,” Hess-April said. And bringing Adam immense joy was to be cuddled in his mother’s arms, and serenaded by her. “But don’t be mistaken, Adam could also be mischievous, he knew just how to wrap her around his finger. “While Adam brought us much joy, he also taught us about the more serious side of life - being patient, relying on our inner strength, and persevering,” she said. In the funeral programme was written a message from Le Roux, thanking those who loved Adam for their support. “Adam was my angel. He lived a purposeful life, a life of peace and healing, all this without uttering a word,” Le Roux said. Le Roux said Adam had a way of connecting with people when he was in a room, his spirit was clearly felt. “He taught us a few important life lessons like humility. He taught us that worldly possessions mean nothing. Adam allowed me to be me - what a glorious gift and absolute treasure was given to me for almost 16 years. “If Adam’s life could in any way help all of us to do more for others, to accept that every human being represents God on this Earth, then his memory will be honoured. “Let’s celebrate this angel’s life who was given to us to understand who we are as human beings,” Le Roux said. Reverend Theodore Hendricks spoke of the difficulties facing families caring for disabled children. “I was shocked when it was shared with me that people with (cerebral palsy) won’t get life cover and insurance. There’s not even a funeral policy they can take. What a disgrace,” he said.  lisa.isaacs@inl.co.za 