The train struck the diesel tanker, but it was empty. The trailer had diesel. Had the diesel tanker been full, many people could have lost their lives, said provincial Traffic Chief Kenny Africa. He questioned the actions of the tanker driver. The crash derailed the train, leaving 10 people injured, including both drivers, and hundreds delayed for hours last night, far from homes in Worcester, Wellington and other towns. The Wellington line was closed in both directions. Police spokesperson Andre Traut said it was fortunate that commuters travelling in the train had not lost their lives. He said police were investigating the incident. Metrorail spokesperson Riana Scott confirmed the collision was between a diesel tanker and trailer and a Wellington-bound train at Muldersvlei level crossing at 4.30pm. Scott said the drivers of the train and the diesel tanker were injured. “A  motor coach derailed and both inbound and outbound lines are closed. The tanker contained diesel which has to be drained and removed before the carriage can be re-railed and moved,” said Scott. She said a train shuttle operated between Klapmuts and Wellington. “Commuters were advised to source alternative bridging transport between Kraaifontein to Klapmuts, and Wellington trains had extended travel times of 60+ minutes,” said Scott. “A Metrorail recovery team is on-site to assist owner Transnet Freight Rail with restoration of train services as soon as the tanker and its trailer have been removed.” She said only once the train was removed would technicians assess the extent of the damage to overhead and track infrastructure. “Although every effort will be made to reinstate the normal train service, recovery could impact on (Wednesday’s) peak hour service, in which case the same arrangement will apply,” Scott said. A passenger on the train, Sandra Japhta, 55, from Worcester, said she was lucky not to have hurt herself when it derailed. Commuters who did not want to wait for Prasa’s shuttle service were taking taxis at a cost of R21 to Klapmuts. She said she did not know how she would get home. Her main concern was getting to work today, as she had been on leave and had to work otherwise her job would be compromised. “I have been here for too long and I am hungry. Prasa keeps telling people to stay in queues but it is chaotic around here,” said Japhta. She said more than 1 000 commuters were delayed. “Everyone here is frustrated. It looks like we are going to stay here until midnight,” she said. Stanfird Charles, who was in a train behind the derailed train, described the scene as chaotic. He said passengers were transported in 15-seater minibuses to Klapmuts. He said Prasa had told them the minibuses would rotate and transport commuters to Hermon, Gouda, Tulbagh, Wolseley, Ceres and Worcester.  sandiso.phaliso@inl.co.za 