More than 400 people have died and about 160 000 Rohingya displaced since violence erupted in Myanmar last month, says humanitarian organisation Islamic Relief South Africa. This emerged at a press conference held by the MJC, other faith-based organisations and activists in Athlone yesterday. Islamic Relief’s Shanaaz Ebrahim-Gire said all humanitarian organisations are being denied entry into the most 
conflict-affected region of Myanmar. “Thousands of  Rohingya flee the region daily and a further 400 000 people are estimated to be trapped in conflict zones in western Myanmar. “Our members are conducting a rapid needs assessment in the makeshift camps close to Cox’s Bazar in order to assess the support needs of those who have fled across the border,” said Ebrahim-Gire. The Rohingya are a Bengali-speaking and mostly 
Muslim minority in Myanmar, the Buddhist majority nation in south-east Asia previously known as Burma. Violence broke out in the northern Rakhine state on August 25, when militants attacked government and security forces supported by Buddhist militia retaliated. The UN on Monday called the response excessive and warned that Myanmar’s treatment of its Rohingya minority appeared to be a “textbook example” of ethnic cleansing. This has moved Nobel Peace Prize laureates including Archbishop Emeritus Desmond Tutu and the Dalai Lama to call for an end to the persecution of the Rohingya. In the open letter addressed to Myanmar leader Aung San Suu Kyi, Tutu said: “I am now elderly, decrepit and formally retired, but breaking my vow to remain silent on public affairs out of profound sadness about the plight of the Muslim minority in your country, the Rohingya. “In my heart you are a dearly beloved younger sister. For years I had a photograph of you on my desk to remind me of the injustice and sacrifice you endured out of your love and commitment for Myanmar’s people. You symbolised righteousness. “In 2010 we rejoiced at your freedom from house arrest, and in 2012 we celebrated your election as leader of the 
opposition. “Your emergence into public life allayed our concerns about violence being perpetrated against members of the Rohingya. "But what some have called ‘ethnic cleansing’ and others ‘a slow genocide’ has persisted - and recently accelerated. The images we are seeing of the suffering of the Rohingya fill us with pain and dread. “As we witness the unfolding horror we pray for you to be courageous and resilient again. We pray for you to speak out for justice, human rights and the unity of your people. "We pray for you to intervene in the escalating crisis and guide your people back towards the path of righteousness.” Yesterday, pressure mounted on Myanmar to end violence, with the US calling for protection of civilians and Bangladesh urging safe zones to enable refugees to go home. MJC deputy president Moulana Abdul Khaliq Allie said: “We are grateful for the support we have received from the interfaith community of what we feel is the duty of South Africans to highlight the atrocities against the Rohingya.” “Although the Rohingya people are Muslim, this is not a Muslim matter only but rather a human rights violation,” The march organised by the MJC and Al-Quds founation will start from Kaizergracht Street to Parliament at 11am. The protest will be attended by several faith organisations, including the Western Cape Religious Leaders Forum, Cape Town Interfaith Initiative, the Worker’s International. - Additional reporting by Reuters Cape Times