Police sources claim Captain Siya Charles, 48, booked out about 100 rounds of ammunition just hours before carrying out the shooting at his home in Capricorn Way, Phoenix, Milnerton, at 3am on Thursday. Neighbours say the couple’s sons,  Ayolise Charles, 12, and Simphiwe Charles, 17, fled the house on foot, running to the police station to report that their mother, Nolunthu Charles, 46, and sister, Sibahle, 20, had been shot and killed. Charles is a seasoned police officer stationed at Milnerton Police Station and is also the Sector Commander. When the Daily Voice visited the house on Thursday, shocked neighbours standing at the scene told the Daily Voice the couple had kept to themselves and were decent people. Others claimed that Charles had a drinking problem, adding that despite this, he was loved by all in the street and fondly called “Captain” by neighbours. A police official revealed that the tragic morning began when Charles allegedly returned to the station after his shift and booked out additional magazines. “He left and came back and booked out between three and four magazines for his service pistol,” he says. “When you receive your service pistol, you get two magazines. “Now three to four magazines is like 100 rounds, so he was preparing to do something. “The question is, who booked this out to him.” A neighbour, who asked not to be identified, says he heard over 40 shots being fired. The next moment he heard that his neighbour’s sons ran to the police station after their mother and sister had been murdered. “All we heard were shots. We were not even sure it was shots, it sounded like someone beating on something,” said the resident. “It was after I came from work. “The family has been living in the street for six months and had moved before from the street and later came back.” Nolunthu’s sister arrived at the scene while the media were present, but she said it was too difficult to speak at the time. Police spokesperson, Captain FC van Wyk, says a case of double murder is under investigation: “At about 3am in Phoenix, Milnerton, [a case where] a 48-year-old police officer shot and fatally wounded his wife and daughter, also injuring himself, is under investigation. “He was transported to a nearby hospital for medical treatment. “A double murder case  was registered for investigation.” The Independent Police Investigative Directorate said the suspect will be charged within 48 hours and once he has recovered enough to appear in court, he will face two counts of murder. Daily Voice