Disgruntled ANCYL members in the province have called for immediate intervention by the national leadership, instead of organising commemoration parties. Former ANCYL regional task team member Mesuli Kama said they had raised their concerns in letters. “We questioned the legitimacy of the ANCYL provincial executive committee that is kept in office despite its term ending in February. This has been ignored," Kama said. "All the genuine concerns we raised (were) that this unconstitutional PEC remains in office to be foot soldiers for Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma’s campaign," he said. ANCYL provincial chairperson Muhammad Khalid Sayed said they had activated all their structures. “We specifically call upon all young people of the Western Cape, youth activists, members and supporters of the ANC, and the former leaders of the ANCYL in our province to join our celebrations,” he said. Kama, however, said the party should be mourning the death of its former secretary-general, Sindiso Magaqa. “Do we celebrate or do we mourn? Comrade Sindiso Magaqa was going to charge that we do not mourn, that we must never betray our generational mission; his (dying) wish would be a realisation of an ANCYL that should rise as an answer and assurance to the critics of the ANC,” Kama said. “As activists we are flabbergasted, dismayed and taken aback by the planned anniversary celebrations which are to take place in a community hall capacitated to take less than 200 people in Nyanga. This on its own is an admission of an ANCYL that cannot mobilise nor organise. "We therefore call on all young people to attend the event and celebrate it in a manner befitting a celebration of the ANCYL’s life and that of Sindiso Magaqa." Kama said the ANCYL had turned into a lobby group that was unable to fulfil its task of mobilising its constituency behind the aspirations of the ANC. Luzuko Bashman, ANCYL spokesperson in the Dullah Omar (Cape Town metro) region, said Kama and his colleagues had no legitimacy. “We are not going to be fighting factions. We are here for the celebrations. The ANCYL has already made pronouncements on its leaders. "We cannot be spending time on people who have no position within the ANCYL. We simply can’t,” he said. Bashman said the ANCYL national executive committee was assisting the Western Cape region to help it organise a provincial congress.  jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus