Police Minister Fikile Mbalula has called on the Hawks to speedily investigate the disappearance of 33 firearms from two police stations in Cape Town. Mbalula said that those responsible must "face the full might of the law". Towards the end of August, it was discovered that 18 riffles handed in as exhibits could not be accounted for at Bellville South police station. It was also picked up that 15 state-issued 9mm pistols were missing in Mitchells Plain. “It is these guns that end up in the hands of gangsters, who daily torment our people and destroy the lives of many young people,” Mbalula said. “Police stations are supposed to be safe havens for all. When firearms in the hands of police go missing, there must be dire consequences. "The people of South Africa, particularly in Cape Town, are already plagued by ugly scenes of gang violence and other serious crimes where innocent people including children get killed on a regular basis. "What cannot be tolerated is violence sponsored from within the police ranks.” Mitchells Plain Community Policing Forum chairperson Abbie Isaacs said those responsible for the safekeeping of police firearms should be held responsible. Police and Prisons Civil Rights Union spokesperson Richard Mamabolo said it was unacceptable for police to lose guns. “Many illegal firearms are being used by criminals to terrorise communities,” he said. Police Deputy Minister Bongani Mkongi said he felt "annoyed and angered" when hearing of the missing firearms. “The question remains, who supplies our arms to criminals, especially in the Western Cape? "If it is those among the police force, the very same people entrusted by the public to confidence to deal with crime, I promise in time die poppe sal dans.” Mkongi said he had spoken to the Bellville South station commander and a detailed report would be provided to him. The provincial police communication department has kept mum on the investigations. Police spokesperson André Traut said investigations were continuing and the details could not be discussed. “Once the investigation has been concluded, the outcome will be made public.”