So said Economic Opportunities MEC Alan Winde yesterday of the outbreak of avian influenza in the province, which has already lead to the culling of about 200 000 chickens. Currently 17 properties were confirmed to be infected with the highly pathogenic H5N8 avian flu and 46 ostrich farms have been placed under quarantine. Vets have started to conduct surveys with farmers and bird owners, in areas surrounding the affected properties. Winde said people living within 3km of farms with infections and who do not complete the surveys, will be visited by an animal health technician. “Although we have no reported cases of people being infected with this strain of avian influenza, we are urging people in contact with infected birds to take precautions. We need the co-operation of the public to stop the spread of this disease,” Winde said. State vet specialising in epidemiology, Lesley van Helden, said after the birds are culled, their carcasses are disposed of. “We increase the monitoring in the area surrounding the property and we let other farmers know what's going on so they are all aware,” Van Helden said. The disease lives among wild birds as well, although they are not being culled. Van Helden said these birds are a small population and if culling starts, they will migrate to other parts of the province and in doing so, spread the disease even further. Van Helden said they would rather the flu “burn itself out” among wild birds. “We've had six properties on which the (avian flu) was confirmed. “Five of these were properties on which people found wild birds that were dead already and it was then reported to us. “We went to pick them up and did testing. One of them was on an ostrich farm,” Van Helden said. State vet, Laura Roberts said ostriches in Heidelberg showed no clinical signs of having the disease and throat swabs were used to detect it. “We quarantined 19 farms, seven of them tested positive. “There's still no signs, we just have to keep those farms quarantined and make sure it doesn't spread,” Roberts said When it came to jobs Winde said: “There are an estimated 29 million birds in the commercial poultry sector in the Western Cape and about 185 000 backyard chickens. “The ostrich sector provides around 15 000 direct jobs and indirectly 100 000 people depend on this sector for their livelihood. “Our economists have started mapping the Western Cape's avian economy. We know the decreased supply of poultry products in the market will also put pressure on food prices - a further strain on households,” Winde said.  francesca.villette@inl.co.za 