Chantel and Joseph Boltman, whose 9-year-old son Jayden Smith was killed almost two years ago in their home in Blackbird Avenue, said they appreciated what the churches and community were doing for them. “I hope we as the community will always stand together and that we are going to drive the gangsters that kill our innocent children out of our community. "Our children are not safe in their homes or anywhere else. I hope that as the community stand together now, they will always stand together, because my child is your child,” said Boltman. Theodore Daniels, whose seven-year-old son Ezra Daniels was killed in the crossfire of gang shootings in his home in Abdullah Moosa Walk earlier this month, also received a hamper. Daniels also expressed his gratitude to the peace walkers. Before the walk, pastor Paul Philips from the Voice of Parkwood community organisation said: “The objective of the peace walk against gangsterism, crime and other social ills is to bring the community together in a common goal of uniting in our faith, which is a powerful and positive force that can influence our outlook in the future and instil a sense of cohesion and positiveness.” Grassy Park CPF spokesperson Philip Bam said the problem facing Parkwood Estate affected everyone and that communities should unite to show the forces of evil that things could not continue as they were. “This prayer walk is an effort to say to those who are harming our children and our community that there is a better life for them.” Organisations involved in the walk included the Southern District Prayer Network, the Reconciliation Church and community members from Ottery, Lavender Hill, Capricorn, Retreat, Pelican Park and Lotus River. Among the participants was a group of ex-prisoners dressed in look-a-like prison gear. Walkers stopped at various points for leaders to recite prayers and focus on certain spots where local children had been killed. The peace walkers attracted scores of onlookers, as they weaved their way through Kestrel Way, Parkhurst Walk, Abdullah Moosa Walk and the Parkwood and Blackbird avenues.  raphael.wolf@inl.co.za 