The hysterical retort from Mayco member JP Smith (“Arendse makes cheap politics out of death of three boys”) is indicative of the ostrich mentality that sinks in when certain politicians become arrogantly drunk with power. The original Cape Times article was on the unnatural deaths of three young men and then the uncorroborated allegation by Smith and the City that there was a “drug use” link to their deaths. Anybody who repeats such a serious allegation in public without verifying the authenticity thereof through formal police channels does not deserve to be in public office. If a police member from SAPS Langa did convey the drug allegation to the City verbally, Smith should’ve verified the allegation with the police media department first instead of repeating it in public. Smith should accept that he is an ordinary politician and has no business or mandate commenting on police matters as there is a clear constitutional doctrine on the separation of powers. That Smith chose to rant on other unrelated political issues in his convoluted response is an indication that his argument is weak and a cheap attempt to divert attention away from his failure to accept his obvious indiscretion. I note that the families of the dead have indicated their intention to sue the City and JP Smith. Our courts have taken a dim view of arrogant public officials whose indiscretions have cost taxpayers dearly. In the matter of Coetzee v National Commissioner of Police and Others (70259/09) [2010], Acting Judge Roelof du Plessis stated the following at (92) “The public and innocent citizens should be vindicated, and a deterrence should be available to force public officials to comply with their duties and obligations, to act constitutionally, and to act within their authority, and without trampling upon the rights of citizens, who are free men and women in a modern democratic society, and who are entitled to demand of public officials to act in such a fashion”. Should the families succeed in their action against the City and Smith, they can attach his pension to pay damages for the painful slur that he uttered during their time of grief. Colin Arendse Wynberg