On Tuesday, residents of Hanover Park attacked police officers and their vehicles while attending to a murder scene where an alleged gangster was shot. In a video that emerged on social media, it can be seen how residents stoned vehicles. The conflict, which occurred in Rywood Road, resulted in an alleged gangster escaping arrest. Police spokesperson Andre Traut confirmed the murder incident. “An 18-year-old man was shot and killed in Erie Court, Hanover Park, by a suspect who fled the scene. “Police reacted and in the process a suspect was arrested, who was sought for another murder which was also perpetrated in Hanover Park,” Traut said. “The community attacked the police and in the process two of our members were injured.” Traut said the matter is under investigation. CPF chairperson Ebrahim Abrahams said they are “not happy about anything criminal happening in Hanover Park” after residents attacked police. “This conflict came about when police were looking for the gun used in a murder (Tuesday) that afternoon. “However, then you have people in the community defending these criminal elements and this totally defeats the purpose of safety and security in our community. “We have people in leadership roles in the community, who are sowing division and this needs to be addressed. “We will be having a community meeting in the evening to engage residents.” Abrahams urged the community to “remain united in the fight against crime”. Social media posts claimed police officers were shot and killed, but this was denied by police. Two officers were injured during the stand-off and four police vehicles were damaged. Police confirm a manhunt is currently on for the murderer of the 18-year-old man. Spokesperson for the deputy minister of police Siyabulela Tom said: “SAPS members came under attack from an angry mob of community members after SAPS tried to apprehend a murder suspect. “Two police officers sustained slight injuries and vehicles were damaged.” A statement on the official SAPS Facebook page said one member was hit with a stone and the other member was bitten. “We are appealing and requesting communities to be calm and allow space for law enforcement officials to operate in and do their work.”  chevon.booysen@inl.co.za 