Portfolio committee on justice and correctional services chairperson Mathole Motshekga confirmed yesterday they will question Abrahams on the matter. The questioning of Abrahams comes after parties and civil society groups have complained that the NPA has not acted on the cases they opened. For several months now, parties and civil society have been calling on Abrahams to begin prosecuting those involved in state capture in light of leaked emails. Motshekga said they will not ignore the issue of state capture when Abrahams faces the committee tomorrow. “They (NPA) have been invited and obviously those are current matters and I don’t think the committee will be silent on that.” The NPA accounts to the justice committee on the work it does. The NPA and Hawks have been criticised in Parliament for failing to act on the evidence submitted on state capture. This followed a number of cases opened by the parties in Parliament and civil society bodies since the issue of the emails came into the public domain. Over the last few months, allegations of state capture have been leaked to the public with top government officials and ministers implicated. A few days ago, President Jacob Zuma's son, Duduzane, denied involvement in state capture. Parliament has set up a number of committees to probe state capture. The Gupta family has recently been selling some of their companies in what it said was a move to prevent job losses. But some MPs have warned that law-enforcement agencies must act with speed to prevent the family from leaving the country. However, the EFF has said the Guptas were selling their assets in an attempt to access banking facilities after the banks closed their accounts. The appearance of Abrahams before MPs to answer for state capture comes as the portfolio committee on public enterprise meets for the first time since Parliament said it would provide it with funding to do its job. Parliament confirmed last week it would give the public enterprises committee an evidence leader to lead the investigation. The mineral resources committee has also met to discuss the issue of its own investigation into state capture. Zuma came under fire in Parliament last week over state capture, but he denied any involvement. He said he was consulting with legal advisers to set up a commission of inquiry into the matter. But parties said this was taking too long and they want the commission to start operating soon. They cannot afford to have more delays, as this was an urgent matter. Political Bureau