The investigation into state capture in Parliament is expected to move into high gear as evidence leader in the portfolio committee on public enterprises’s probe advocate Ntuthuzelo Vanara prepares to meet witnesses. The official opposition is taking President Jacob Zuma to the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, today to force him to appoint a commission of inquiry into state capture. This is in line with former public protector Thuli Madonsela’s recommendations that Zuma must ask Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng to appoint a judge to lead the inquiry. Acting chairperson of the committee Zukiswa Rantho said yesterday they would meet Vanara after he had done his preparation. Vanara was appointed after MPs went cap in hand to Speaker Baleka Mbete to give them resources including Vanara to be the evidence leader to start the inquiry. Vanara was the evidence leader in the inquiry that made recommendations on action against senior SABC officials implicated in wrongdoing. The committee has drawn up a list of witnesses including former Eskom board chairpersons Ben Ngubane and Zola Tsotsi and former chief executives Brian Molefe and Matshela Koko. The Gupta family and Duduzane Zuma, President Zuma’s son, are also on the list of witnesses to be called by the committee. The National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) confirmed in Parliament last week, it was investigating state capture. NPA head Shaun Abrahams told the portfolio committee on justice and correctional services there were seven investigations they were conducting on state capture. One investigation relates to allegations made by former Deputy Minister of Finance Mcebisi Jonas that he was offered R600 million by the Guptas to replace his then boss Nhlanhla Nene. The NPA was also investigating the issue of coal contracts between Eskom and the Gupta-owned company Tegeta, which has now been sold to a Swiss company. Cosatu also confirmed yesterday it was going ahead with its planned national strike on September 27 to protest against state capture. Cosatu spokesperson Sizwe Pamla said they wanted an end to state capture and for Zuma to appoint a commission of inquiry into the matter. “The federation shall be demanding that the state and all its institutions must refuse to deal with the predatory elite and in particular cancel all commercial dealings with the Gupta family,” said Pamla. He said they want ministers and officials implicated in the leaked Gupta emails to be suspended. The trade union federation also wants the government to recover all the money frittered away on wasteful or frivolous spending or lost to corruption. In his appearance in the National Assembly two weeks ago Zuma said he was consulting with the lawyers on setting up the inquiry.