The departments of civil engineering and surveying, electrical, electronic and computer engineering and mechanical engineering have decided to postpone this week's assessments until further notice. “This decision was taken after careful consideration around the safety of students and staff. The respective departments will communicate any further developments around academic activities via various communication channels available to them. "Students are also encouraged to monitor the official communication from the institution that will be issued from time to time,” the faculty of engineering said. The students and workers are protesting over the in-sourced worker contracts and demanding that the suspension of four student leaders be lifted. Yesterday, CPUT deputy vice-chancellor Anthony Staak met with protesting students and workers at the Cape Town campus and listened to their demands. The university confirmed that a representative from the Dean of Students' Office, advocate Lionel Harper, met students from Athlone and accepted a 20-point letter of demands, and will provide feedback on some of the issues as early as today. A Cape Town campus student said: “Prof Staak came so that students can enter the campus premises without any violence. The main person the students wanted to speak to was the (acting) vice-chancellor, Dr Nhlapo. "To pledge a way forward the vice-chancellor wanted to know what the demands are, which are: the contracts of the in-sourced workers and the suspension of the four student leaders be lifted.” In an e-mail to staff and students, Nhlapo said a reconciliatory approach to student discipline had been rebuffed and all in-sourced worker queries will be dealt with directly by management during their induction. “I must reiterate that CPUT management has bent over backwards to accommodate in-sourced workers and students alike. At this stage, management's stance is that the well-being of the greater CPUT community must come first, even if that means that tough decisions must be made.” The university said the spring graduation scheduled for Friday will continue as planned and there will be additional 
security.