Cape Town Cycle Tour Trust marketing, media and sponsorship director David Bellairs outlined the phased entry programme and confirmed that riders who registered for the 2017 Cycle Tour, which had to be halted due to extreme wind conditions, had been given the option of a preferential entry prior to general entry applications opening. “Emails were sent out in batches to every rider who entered and registered for the 2017 Cape Town Cycle Tour at this year’s Cape Town Cycle Tour Expo,” said Bellairs. “The offer of a guaranteed entry to the 2018 Cape Town Cycle Tour, at 2017 entry fee rates, had to be taken up by 4pm on Wednesday, September 13. "After this date and time the preferential entry was forfeited - but those wishing to enter may still join the general application process for entries.” “As part of the phased entry approach, loyal supporters of the event who have ridden 21 or more races have been given until today (Tuesday, September 19) to enter,” said Bellairs. “And, as the founders of the event, paid-up Pedal Power Association (PPA) members also have the opportunity to enter by today.” These entry fees will be at the 2018 entry fee rate. Aspirant cyclists looking to participate in the 2018 Cape Town Cycle Tour (including Internationals) can apply for an entry online at www.capetowncycletour.com from 1pm tomorrow (September 20, 2017). Entry applications will be allocated on a first-come, first-served basis and will close once the limit of 35 000 participants has been reached - or on Wednesday, September 27 at 4pm - whichever occurs first. From today and until September 27, emails will be sent out to successful applicants in batches from the Cape Town Cycle Tour events office, confirming that they have been awarded an entry into the 2018 Cape Town Cycle Tour. Successful applicants will then have until 4pm on September 27 to make payment to secure their entry. The general entry application fee for South African applicants is R540, for PPA members it is R510 and for internationals it is R1 000. Unsuccessful applicants will also receive an email notification and will be invited to enter, either via supporting a charity or through the official substitution process  in early 2018. The entries of applicants exercising their option to decline the entry, and the entries of those who have not paid by 4pm on September 27, will be made available to a previously unsuccessful rider. “The 40th Cape Town Cycle Tour will be staged on Sunday, March 11, 2018. And there are many exciting changes afoot,” said Bellairs. As announced in August, it has been agreed with all stakeholders that the official start will move from Hertzog Boulevard to Castle Street. This means that 35 000 participants will gather at the  Grand Parade before lining up near to where 525 riders first set off 41 years ago for The Big Ride In, the protest for safe cycling and the need for cycle paths around Cape Town that sparked the idea of a Cape Town Cycle Tour. The new start will help avoid the sort of wind vortices experienced at the Cape Town Cycle Tour’s previous start venue (on Hertzog Boulevard) which, when combined with extraordinarily strong winds, led to the halting of the race this year. The new start venue also allows organisers to create a more welcoming experience for riders, including a hospitality zone and expanded services. The 2018 finish at the Cape Town Stadium Precinct will also boast a substantially enlarged offering. Keep up to date with Cape Town Cycle Tour developments by liking our Facebook Page at www.facebook.com/cycletour or by following us on Twitter at @CTCycleTour or on Instagram @ctcycletour.  For any event queries, or assistance with entries, please contact the Cycle Tour events office during office hours on 087 820 7223 or visit www.capetowncycletour.com 