Cape Town - Family members of dead make-up artist Ntombozuko Peter are asking anyone with information to come forward after she was viciously beaten, and died from her injuries. Her sister, Ntomboxolo Peter, said the 29-year-old never regained consciousness after she was admitted to Livingstone Hospital in Port Elizabeth on Saturday by an unknown woman and a man alleged to be her boyfriend. The family suspects her boyfriend was somehow involved in the assault as their sister had opened an assault case against him in June, but withdrew it shortly afterwards, said Ntomboxolo. “He went to her work and struck her, and he was even banned from entering the place again by her employer. Ntombozuko withdrew the case and we fought with her about it. “She decided to leave our home in Kwamagxaki and go to live with him. She had become withdrawn from us.” Ntomboxolo said the last time she saw her sister alive was on Friday when she went to their home to do laundry. Ntomboxolo did not leave her sister’s side while she was in hospital until they told her she was brain dead. She said a nurse had contacted the family on Saturday and said the staff on duty didn’t believe the story of the people who had brought her in. They claimed she had been the victim of a robbery. Her face was severely bruised, said Ntomboxolo. Ntombozuko’s arms were also badly bruised. However, no dirt was found on her clothing. Their cousin, Nombulelo Peter, said Ntombozuko had expressed her bubbly and spontaneous personality through her work and had changed completely since she met her boyfriend. She said her cousin did not deserve to die the way she did and asked that anyone with information should contact the police, as there was too many rumours and speculations, with her boyfriend nowhere to be found. Police spokesperson Andre Beetge said police had changed the case from attempted murder to murder following the death of Ntombozuko. “A 29-year-old woman was admitted to Livingston Hospital at 12:00 by a person or persons. She never regained consciousness and died of her injuries the Sunday at 17:00. Cape Times