Gauteng Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi revealed this while answering questions from the DA in the legislature. The questions were to shed light on the appointment of the principal, referred to only as “B Makatu”, which caused racial tension in the coloured community around Soweto, who, according to media reports, seemed to prefer a coloured candidate to replace the then principal. Seven candidates were shortlisted for the post. The responding document, released to the DA only last week, showed that Makatu ranked third in the number of points scored. "The panel awarded her 198 points while R Mabaso led with 211, followed by W Hendricks with 199. The panel included members of the school governing body (SGB) and the representative council of learners. Lesufi admitted that certain “discussions” between the SGB and the panel had secured the job for Makatu. “The preferred candidate was not ranked number one in terms of the panel scores. However, the panel had decided prior to the interview that they would use both the candidates' score and discussions to identify the preferred candidate. "This was done in the presence of two observing teacher unions,” said Lesufi. The MEC said the panel gave Makatu a low score because she was an inexperienced deputy principal who had only primary school management experience and did not meet the curriculum management of a secondary school. While a top scorer, Mabaso was deemed to lack leadership curriculum management skills and there was a need to get someone from outside the school to boost its poor performance, which had been evident for several years. Lesufi said the panel called a meeting with all SGB members after completing the interviews where they were taken through the process followed in the shortlisting, interviews and the order of preference for ratification. “There was no objection to the decision of the panel. The signed documents were then forwarded to the department for consideration, and the SGB’s recommendation was approved by the head of the department,” said Lesufi. However, Makatu’s appointment was rejected largely by the coloured community, who preferred a coloured person to occupy the position, as they accused black teachers at the school of mistreating their children. The SGB deputy chairperson had earlier pulled out from the panel purely because his preferred candidate, a coloured male, was not shortlisted.