While the Springboks’ incurred the wrath of an angry rugby public back home following their recent 57-0 drubbing by the All Blacks in New Zealand, the post-match reaction of the Bok management seemed very circumspect.
 
Following the carnage, Bok coach Allister Coetzee simply said he could offer ‘”no excuses” for his charges not getting the job done when it counted the most. Although the coach may have concealed it very well, there appeared to be very little evidence of any panic either.
 
Yes, it was a “perfect storm” from the rampant Men in Black, but leading Durban-based performance psychologist Dr Kirsten van Heerden believes, based purely on that post-match reaction, the wrong signals are being given off.
 
“When we are okay with a ‘perfect storm’ excuse, I think we are in real trouble,” said Van Heerden. “Yes, we can and should applaud the effort, but we also need to be careful about slipping into a mindset that tolerates mediocrity.”
 
She advocates an immediate mind shift to what she terms an ‘elite performance mindset’. ”All great teams and athletes are not happy to just be there. They are focused on being the best in the world.”
 
“Do you think Michael Phelps became the most decorated Olympic athlete ever by being satisfied with just being at the Olympics?”
 
Van Heerden isolated prime examples like Usain Bolt, Roger Federer, Serena Williams, LeBron James and Kobe Bryant.
 
“They may love competing, but all of them are not satisfied with it. Quite simply they are obsessed with being better than anyone else on the planet. That’s it. That is an elite performance mindset.”
 
Van Heerden pointed out that the Springbok were not simply helpless bystanders caught up in events beyond their control.
 
“High performance, almost by definition, is about execution under pressure, composure when it counts, delivery of performance week in and week out. When did we begin to think it was anything else?
 
The experienced psychologist was pointed out that any counter-argument that SA sport actually doesn’t tolerate mediocrity, should be coupled with a level of honesty.
 
“Of course we want to win and do well. But I don’t think we are being honest with ourselves. Yes, we need to take positives from performances, but at its core, if you want to be the best in the world, you need to be willing to look inside and face some difficult truths.”
 
“When we become okay with ‘Don’t be negative, they gave their best and that’s enough’ or ‘Wow, we lost by fewer points than last time, that’s fantastic’ we are moving away from what elite level sport is all about,” concluded Dr van Heerden. The Springboks have a chance to redeem themselves when they host the Wallabies in a Rugby Championship encounter in Bloemfontein on Saturday (kick-off 17h05). Unfortunately, as has been the case for a number of seasons, the two old foes will be battling it out for the runners-up berth and even a victory over the New Zealanders in Cape Town on October 7 may not be enough to convince the success-starved South African rugby fans. African News Agency