However, the Cape Times of Wednesday, March 22, carried the front page report of yet another child who had gone missing. This happened on March 10. The child had been murdered and her body was found wrapped in a carpet on March 21. The girl in question was 13-year-old Rene-Tracy Roman. Thus, she had been missing for 11 days. One can but imagine the trauma Rene-Tracy’s family and friends must have experienced during those 11 days. And then came the discovery of her body. One feels deeply sorrowful that anyone should experience what these persons had to endure. And, of course, one is deeply saddened by the horror Rene-Tracy must have experienced. A source notes that, according to statistics released by the SAPS Missing Persons Bureau for 2013, a child in South Africa goes missing every five hours. Although, happily, 77% are found, there are still 23% not found, or not found alive. The pressing question that faces us is: how do we protect our children from this kind of horror? According to the Cape Times of March 24, Charles Daniels, Lavender Hill Civic Association chairperson, said children needed to be inspired to create a bright future for themselves, and that “we need programmes that teach children self-defence, and programmes to show them what’s out there in the world”. Unicef and World Concern, relief and development agencies, emphasise that trafficking in children is rife. These children will be sold as cheap labour or for sexual exploitation. Children may be abducted or induced to leave their abodes with promises of a better life elsewhere. There are also cases of children who run away from their homes due, perhaps, to pressures they believe themselves unable to face. The so-called Gert van Rooyen Five lead us to reflect on children who go missing through abduction. Together with his partner, Joey Haarhoff, Van Rooyen engineered the abduction of six teenage girls. This happened during the 1980s and became a sensational serial killer investigation. Although the sixth teenager escaped from the cupboard  and the house where she had been held captive, the other five were never found. Their photographs, reproduced in newspapers and magazines, became one of the tragic symbols of 1980s South Africa. Following the escape of the sixth girl, police closed in on Van Rooyen and Haarhoff and a car chase ensued. Rather than face arrest, Van Rooyen shot and killed Haarhoff, then turned the gun on himself. More recently, Stacha Arendz was found dead, with hands and feet bound, in an open field in Tafelsig. And then a third female victim was discovered within days, buried in a shallow grave. In this country we face the scourge of senseless murder. And let us not forget the case of Norman Afzal Simons, a teacher. He was convicted in the mid-1990s of the abduction and murder of a young boy. The murdered boy was believed to be the 22nd victim of the notorious serial killer known as The Station Strangler. The Strangler claimed his first victim in 1986 and for eight years the Cape Flats and surrounds were gripped by fear as he killed one young boy after another. False leads abounded but no progress seemed to be made in the investigation as the years rolled by. Eventually, with the killing of the last young boy, an identikit was released by the police to the public of the man thought to be The Station Strangler. The identikit picture showed the man to have a prominent scar on his cheek. At the same time, a nurse at a psychiatric clinic drew a link between the identikit picture and a patient at the clinic. Simons was ultimately handed a life sentence. He was, it would seem, well-loved by children. If your child disappears and is never restored to you, this must surely be the most harrowing experience one can undergo. You simply don’t know what happened. You don’t know whether your child is dead. Decades go by, but you cannot find closure. On a quite different note, but in a sense an uplifting one, there is the case of humans and baboons who live peaceably together while performing what is called scavenging for food. I do not like the term “scavenging”. I would much rather say that these adults and children, and the baboons, are reclaiming what many of us - and that includes me - have put out as unusable. While it is sad that humans have to procure food in this way, I find it uplifting to see photos of humans and baboons literally side by side finding food in this way, and not preventing one another from taking whatever pickings they might chance upon. Another uplifting story told to me by a friend, a teacher at a primary school, concerns children who have shown themselves to be caring and compassionate. A child in the class had lost everything in a fire that destroyed the modest home of her family. Fortunately, not a life was lost and no one was injured. The child was kept from school for a few days, presumably to undergo trauma counselling. The class friends asked what they could bring for the child - food, clothing, whatever. The teacher advised them not to, pointing out that family, friends and community structures would take care of these things. A resourceful girl suggested that they have a party when the child got back to school. Everyone thought that would be a good idea - clearly they would also be released from some teaching and learning time. Permission was duly obtained from the principal that a part of the relevant school day could be devoted to entertain the unfortunate youngster. The children agreed that no gifts would be given or received, but that there should be delicious imperishable snacks. The very next day the contributions arrived. There were packets of crisps, small chocolate bars, and a variety of biscuits. The teacher saved these in her classroom cupboard. Out of her own pocket she bought a small fruit juice for each child - quite an expense, I think. On the day the girl in question returned to school, she was surprised to hear the teacher announce, an hour or so before the end of the day, that lessons were over, and that they would have a party to welcome their friend back. Eager hands took the provisions from the teacher’s cupboard and 
set these out under a tree in the school yard. The children were magnificent. They started by telling jokes. Tears of laughter streamed down the cheeks of many of them, including those of the little girl in question. Then they played games and finally ran races. Exhausted, they flopped down on the grass and started helping themselves to the eats, while the teacher sent a few to retrieve the fruit juices. At the end of the day, the girl in question put her arms around the teacher and asked whether she could speak to the class. She thanked everyone and said that that day was the happiest she had had since the day of the fire tragedy. This story touched my heart because it shows the nature of children. As we remember Rene-Tracy and Stacha, let us also remember that children are especially precious and we need to protect them always.