This comes as the search for Nikoi, 50, who went missing on Table Mountain, enters its second week tomorrow. At the time of her disappearance, the Ghanaian national was walking down the lower slopes of Table Mountain at about 1pm on March 21. She was wearing a blue hat with a wide brim, a sleeveless black top, light blue Bermuda shorts and light brown sneakers. She had a cream, black and brown cardigan tied around her waist and was carrying a small brown, white and cream bag. She was wearing oval-shaped sunglasses. While the police said there were no new developments regarding the ongoing search, Nikoi’s family suspect that she may no longer be around the Table Mountain area. Her husband, Chris Nikoi, yesterday told the Cape Times that the family found it difficult to deal with her disappearance. He said the last time he had contact with her was less than an hour before she went missing. Nikoi had sent a message to him, telling him that she had reached the bottom of the mountain. Chris, who was with their 16-year-old daughter, said he wished they had returned to her after receiving the message. “This is the worst thing that I have ever gone through. The search continues. The police have been leading the search. I just left Cape Town for Joburg, but I think I will come back on Tuesday. The conclusion is that she is most likely to be not in the area where she was last seen,” said Chris. “In all the 23 years I have been married to her, I have never gone through such a difficult thing like this. The last time I was in contact with her was when she sent me an SMS. That was the last time I heard from her. I pray every day that this horrible nightmare is over,” said Chris. The family has appealed to anyone with information about Nikoi’s disappearance to contact the police. She is about 173cm tall and has short black and grey hair, and is of dark complexion and medium build. Meanwhile, a missing university student’s body was found on Stellenbosch mountain on Friday morning. Wilderness search and rescue services spokesperson Johan Marais said the missing man was last seen on Thursday morning when he left his flat. “During our final planning and with information which his friends gave us, it was decided to commence our search in the vicinity of the cellphone tower on Stellenbosch mountain. Shortly after 8.25am a first clue was found by a hasty team of four which had been sent on to the mountain. The body of a male person was spotted below a cliff,” he said. In a separate incident, a woman was airlifted to 2 Military Hospital in Wynberg after she suffered a seizure on the Platteklip Trail near the contour path during the Platteklip Challenge at the weekend. The woman was not part of the Challenge.