Leilahn Albertyn and Lameez Hendricks had been travelling in a VW Caddy in Goodwood when two men armed with sharp objects appeared from under the seat. When they screamed for help, the driver allegedly told them that the suspects were his friends. One men grabbed Albertyn by her waist and arm while the other assailant took her belongings. Hendricks managed to jump out of the moving vehicle. The men robbed Albertyn of her earrings before they told her to get out of the moving car. Albertyn said they sought refuge at the Goodwood police station. The shaken Albertyn told the Cape Times she was still traumatised by the incident. “When we got to the police station the police were aware of what had happened, because Lameez’s mom had contacted them informing them of the incident. ‘‘We drove back to where the incident took place and found my earrings and house keys on the side of the road,” said Albertyn. Meanwhile the owner of Rikkis taxis, Waleed Baker, confirmed that the driver had been suspended and a disciplinary hearing would be opened. “Firstly, we would like to apologise to  Leilahn Albertyn and Lameez Hendricks, as well as their families, for the stress and inconvenience caused by this traumatic experience,” Baker said. ‘‘Incidents like these are most definitely not the norm within our business, and we are extremely apologetic.” He said the driver had agreed to meet the company’s officials earlier this week. “The meeting was held on April3, where the driver was given the opportunity to give his view on the incident. ‘‘The driver was also asked if he would be willing to take both a drug and a scheduled polygraph test, which he agreed to,” said Baker. The driver said that  someone had opened the rear tailgate of the vehicle and another person opened the rear passenger door to get into the vehicle, and a scuffle ensued. “He (the driver) says that by the time he had tried to assist them both Leilahn and Lameez had managed to leave the cab. ‘‘The driver then claims that the assailants held a sharp object to his throat, telling him to drive off. ‘‘While driving, he was asked for money and searched. The driver claims that they found his wallet and took his money, after which they told him to stop and the assailants ran away,” said Baker. SAPS spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana said a case of attempted robbery had been opened yesterday. There had not yet been any arrests.