She is thrilled that the Siyasanga Cape Town Theatre Company – the company she heads with Roy Sargeant – is staging Three’s A Crowd, a new play which at the Guga S’Thebe Theatre. The theatre is adjacent to the Guga S’Thebe Arts and Culture Centre in Langa. (It is part of the community centre complex, but is a separate 
building). Dike is directing Three’s A Crowd, which is on until April 13. Three’s A Crowd is by Joburg-based Pfarelo Nemakonde. It is a racy rom-com featuring three hipster gay men and their female best friend. I watched the play in rehearsal and was captivated by the chemistry between actors Ntokozo Majozi, Yanga Mkonto, Inga Sikweyiya and Nicholate Nongoshe. Nemakonde’s graphic dialogue is laugh-out-loud fabulous. His play Chomi was a hit when it was staged at the Artscape Arena in 2014. The play was developed through Artscape’s New Writing Programme, which was run by Sargeant. Sargeant’s New Writing Programme operated in tandem with the Siyasanga Cape Town Theatre Company, which was established in 2002. In addition to developing new texts, the company stages school set works. Siyasanga (“we will embrace you”) was formerly based at Artscape but when Sargeant’s contract ended, the programme was rebranded as the Siyasanga New Playwriting Programme. Dike and Sargeant continued to develop new texts at venues such as The Rosebank Theatre and at The Dome - a space within the main building of the Guga S’Thebe complex. The next setwork production under the banner of Siyasanga is Athol Fugard’s My Children, My Africa, which will be on at Artscape from May 4-14. Parallel with the Siyasanga New Playwriting Programme, Dike dedicates much of her time to overseeing the Black Playwrights’ Forum. “This is a programme dedicated specifically to developing young black playwrights by providing one-on-one mentoring and guidance,” said Dike. Three’s A Crowd came out of the Black Playwrights’ Forum. This brings us to the Guga S’Thebe Theatre. In the publicity material for Three’s A Crowd, it says that Guga S’Thebe Theatre is a “new theatre”. Soweto has its own theatre and now Langa has its own facility as well, we are told. That is great but although the theatre is new-ish, it is not new. It was completed in late 2014 and has been used by community groups - dance, church etc.. That was the aim when building the facility – to establish a multi-purpose venue - not just a fixed theatre auditorium.  The theatre building was “built by a group of German students, using recycled materials”. See www.futurecapetown.com – a non-profit organisation which played a significant role in getting the building off the ground.  The City of Cape Town owns the land and owns the theatre building. Theatre manager Marco Morgan and others working in the theatre are city employees. Regarding the space, Sargeant said: “The theatre is equipped to run sound but, as yet, there is no lighting. We are having to bring lighting in. But it is a large, friendly space with perfect acoustics. “There is no stage, thank heavens, which means you can manipulate the space to whatever configuration suits your production. “Similarly, there is no raked flooring for the seats, so the auditorium can be shaped to your needs. Rostra can provide a rake. “Think Grahamstown Festival (National Arts Festival).” Dike is mindful that whatever is brought in needs to be easily packed away to accommodate other users. The bottom line is that it is a venue for hire - operating mainly on a BYO policy - bring your own lighting and whatnot, and take it away afterwards. Transport to city theatres is beyond the purses for many in Langa. Undoubtedly, it is brilliant to have a stylish theatre in Langa (just off the Bhunga Road turnoff), but it seems that there is much work to be done in terms of infrastructure. It would be great if the theatre building could be used to stage more productions and provide a respite from the itinerary.  *  Three’s A Crowd, runs until April 13. Tickets are R60. Buy at the door. For info about the Guga S’Thebe Theatre, hiring, etc, e-mail theatre manager Marco Morgan: Marco.Morgan@capetown.gov.za