The meerkat, now named Scout, was found by a stranger in the middle of the road on the outskirts of Oudtshoorn, while he sat next to his mommy’s lifeless body. His mother was killed after being hit by a car. In an attempt to prevent the young meerkat from suffering the same fate, the unknown man rescued the pup and delivered him to the entrance of the Cango Wildlife Ranch in a box about two weeks ago. Scout, went into round-the-clock care in their Animal Care Centre where it was confirmed that the pup was a male. “In the box sat a tiny baby meerkat, staring at us with big, curious eyes. “Our friendly traveller managed to catch the tiny meerkat while he sat next to his mommy’s lifeless body in the middle of the road,” said Cango Wildlife Ranch tourism assistant director Tammy Moult. For the first few days he was fed milk by syringe and later moved on to solids such as chicken. “He has formed devoted bonds with his carers, who are working hard to instil natural meerkat behaviour and enrichment into his daily routine. Due to our staff expertise and our recently built animal hospital we often accept the responsibility of caring for injured fauna that get brought to us by local travellers, residents and even farmers in accordance with Cape Nature,” said Moult. The ranch regularly rehabilitates and release injured animals such as snakes, tortoises and birds, but often releases are not possible due to the extent of injuries and human contact experienced throughout the process of rehabilitation. “Scout for example, having been hand-raised, will join our meerkat exhibit where we pledge to care for him at Cango Wildlife Ranch indefinitely. ‘‘If we can get the public at large to take anything away from this story, it’s to encourage everyone on the roads to drive with caution. Far too many animals are injured and killed on our roads,” said Moult. “We further encourage that when you find these injured animals that you notify local bodies and facilities who can assist. Additionally, Cape Nature is always contactable. ‘‘Secondly we would like to commend the gentleman who brought Scout to us,” said Moult. The organisation says Scout has a long journey ahead and it is honoured to provide his forever home, where he will be represented alongside 89 other species that form part of their education through conservation platform.