But a defiant Shivambu said: “That was a long time ago. It’s old news. I won’t withdraw.” He made the comment after Mbete announced in Parliament’s ATC (announcements, tablings and committee reports) that the conduct of the Red Beret MP  at a sitting in November would be referred to the new disciplinary committee “following his failure to withdraw an unparliamentary remark” for investigation and reporting. The disciplinary committee comprises the ANC’s Amos Mahlalela, the DA’s John Steenhuisen, the EFF’s Hlengiwe Hlophe, the IFP’s Narend Singh, the FFP’s Corne Mulder and the ACDP’s Cheryllyn Dudley. Shivambu's woes were sparked by a debate on a motion of no confidence against President Jacob Zuma, who he likened to post-colonial African despots when he said he had nothing to lose and would kill his opponents. “After he has dealt with everyone else, he is going to arrest all of you. "He is going to lock you up. He is going to kill you,” Shivambu said. When he was asked by Deputy Speaker Lechesa Tsenoli to withdraw his remarks and bring a “substantiated motion”, Shivambu refused. “I cannot withdraw that reality and it is a reality that we are living under a growing dictatorship of Jacob Zuma, who seeks to enrich himself and his family. "It is a fact. There is no need to withdraw that. I will never withdraw. It will never happen,” Shivambu declared. Tsenoli had said he viewed his refusal to withdraw his remarks as “a serious violation”. Yesterday Shivambu said he did not know why Mbete had only now referred his conduct to the disciplinary committee. He said he remained unfazed ahead of the pending vote of no confidence in Zuma. “We will never be intimidated by anything. I don’t know what the intention is all about,” he insisted. Shivambu is no stranger in refusing to withdraw "unparliamentary language". In 2014, he was asked several times to conform to the rules of the House and withdraw his remarks that Deputy Minister in the Presidency Buti Manamela was lying. He also refused to withdraw calling Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa a murderer over the death of the miners in Marikana. However, Shivambu made a public withdrawal for gesturing with a middle finger when ordered to leave the Assembly after he refused to withdraw his remarks. This year Shivambu also refused to withdraw his remarks when he made references to a “criminal syndicate that is objecting to the passing of legislation”. Appeals by committee chairperson Yunus Carrim to Shivambu to withdraw his remarks fell on deaf ears.