EFF leader Julius Malema told an estimated 120 000 gathering in front of the Union Buildings that political parties joined hands to defend the country which was under threat. Malema said: “When we are united, we will never be defeated by an illiterate president because Zuma is going to leave office whether wa rata kgotsa ga a rate (he likes it or not). This office does not belong to a clan of Nxamalala.” He said Zuma must go back to the village to look after cattle because it was the only job he could do better. Malema accused ANC leaders of misleading the public by telling them that junk status was an issue only affecting white people. He told marchers that junk status recently accorded to South Africa by rating agencies Standard and Poor’s and Fitch would hit hard the pockets of the poor and put under threat social grants, RDP houses and schools nutrition schemes. He thanked former presidents Thabo Mbeki and Kgalema Motlanthe for speaking out on the motion of no confidence to be tabled in Parliament against Zuma. “We are listening to our leaders and we would do as we are instructed by our leaders because every country has elders. You are a mess if you don’t listen to your elders.” UDM leader Bantu Holomisa echoed Malema’s sentiment, saying South Africans were concerned about Zuma’s leadership because they were witnessing their government going down under this administration's watch. He said the junk status would negatively affect the people and levels of unemployment would rise. DA Gauteng leader John Moodey said Zuma was not worthy of occupying the presidential office. “I respect the office but I can’t respect a corrupt man. South Africans from all walks of life are united here today with one common voice.” Mkhuleko Hlengwa, leader of the IFP Youth Brigade, pleaded with Zuma to heed the calls of the people to resign. “We are not going to be a disaster because of one man. Mr Zuma we are giving you a red card, pack your bags and go,” he said. Themba Masango, a member of #Save South Africa, said: “As civil society we are here today in support of all our political parties. We may not agree on ideologies but we agree on one thing that Zuma must go and Zuma must go today.” Nelson Doctor, president of the newly formed Shosholoza Progressive Movement, said:  “We can offer a peaceful exit for Zuma. He must resign within 72 hours otherwise we  are going to push him out of office.” Nqabayomzi Kwankwa, deputy president of the UDM, said: "Many of them thought we were bluffing when we said we were going to march today. Many thought we were making an empty threat when we said South Africans are fed-up with Zuma. “That we have come out in numbers to show them that people are fed-up is clear to Jacob Zuma we are coming for him (because) his days are numbered.” Cope leader Mosiuoa Lekota said: “We are here to make a very strong statement that no one can govern our country unless they base themselves upon the will of the people. Because Zuma has never respected the constitution of our country, he must give way.” The organisers and the various parties said the march was not a once-off but part of the rolling mass action to be staged even in different provinces.