The officer was in her early 40s. A motorist has been charged with drunken driving, reckless driving and culpable homicide according to provincial traffic chief, Kenny Africa. Her death on Saturday came hours before an off-duty provincial officer was killed in an accident near Worcester. “We have lost two officers in a space of 48 hours. This is really a sad day for Provincial Traffic and we mourn the loss of our dear colleague. Our heartfelt condolences to the bereaved family,” said Africa. Africa said the female officer stationed in Vredenburg was killed while attempting to curb bad and reckless behaviour. “She was not married. The mother of the officer attended the scene. You can imagine what it is like to lose a daughter. Trauma counselling is also provided for the loss of their colleagues,” said Africa. The officer was one of 14 people killed in separate accidents in the province at the weekend. “In another head-on collision between Worcester and Rawsonville on the N1 earlier between a bakkie and a light motor vehicle, the driver of the motor vehicle died.  We had no less than five head-on collisions since the start of this weekend, in which 12 people lost their lives,” said Africa. Five people including a six-year-old boy were killed in a head-on collision between a truck, a Mazda bakkie and an Escort in Riviersonderend near Caledon. Two people were killed in a head-on collision between two vehicles in the Ceres Theronsberg Pass. Africa said a 27-year-old pedestrian was killed in a hit-and-run incident in Mossel Bay. Africa said 1350 vehicles were stopped and 1113 were screened in separate operations in the Western Cape. He said 20 people were arrested for driving under the influence of alcohol. Traffic officers also issued 157 fines totalling R235 800. Meanwhile, 23 people were injured when a minibus taxi, a car, and a bakkie collided on the N2 northbound in Durban on Saturday. According to paramedics, the taxi driver and one passenger were found trapped in the minibus. In an unrelated incident, security company SBV Service has offered a R1-million reward for information that could lead to the arrest of robbers involved in a cash-in transit heist in Athlone at the weekend. One of the company’s three protection services officers was shot dead when they were attacked by armed robbers while servicing an ATM on Saturday. A second officer was wounded and was recovering in hospital. Cape Times