Fedusa was yesterday preparing to take Saftu to the Labour Court after the new kid on the block refused to back down to Fedusa’s demand to change its name. Fedusa is objecting to Saftu’s name because it “closely resembles” its own. Fedusa said it had instructed its attorneys to issue a letter of demand to Saftu steering committee convenor Zwelinzima Vavi to change the name or face legal action. The drama has unfolded just days before Saftu’s official launch in Gauteng from April 21 to 23. Saftu registered with the Department of Labour last month. Its name, chosen ahead of two others, is expected to be ratified at its launch congress this weekend. Fedusa spokesperson Frank Nxumalo said Fedusa had waited for the new federation to be formally registered before taking action. “They have been talking about it all along, so we had to wait for the formal registration,” Nxumalo said. He said Fedusa also had to wait for meetings within its structures to enable its general secretary, Dennis George, to report to Fedusa’s management committee. “The management committee mandated him to act. They (the attorneys) have already written to Vavi asking him to change the name of their federation. “There is a date given to them to comply. They have formally written back and acknowledged receiving it.” Nxumalo said Saftu should not use this name because it would be confusing to 
members of the public. Vavi confirmed having received correspondence from Fedusa’s attorneys, but said he had written back dismissing the demand. He insisted the name was “absolutely nothing close” to the rival union’s name. “We are so shocked with the stance Fedusa has taken, similar to the right-wing wanting to derail our federation.” Although Fedusa was one of the federations approached to discuss the future of the trade union movement in the country, it chose not to be part of Saftu. Nxumalo said Fedusa could not ditch its 20-year history as a federation. “We did not want to be swallowed. We have a presence within the labour movement and our goodwill has been there for 20 years.” But Vavi said Fedusa had jumped out of talks about the future of trade unions. “They want to remain small.” He also said the legal threat by Fedusa would not affect  preparations for the Saftu launch. “It is a side-show. It is a non-issue. It is very silly and petty of Fedusa to play the role the AWB and the Free Market Foundation would not want to do,” Vavi said. “They waste workers’ money. They know that they won’t get a sympathetic ear,” he said.