As she read through my father’s writings on his family, her own life came into strong focus - since they came from the same family. While she read through my father’s writings on the political events of the times he lived in she recalled her own activism, since they were fellow activists in the liberation struggle from the 1940s. My father’s book was published in 2002, and my mother intended to continue writing her own memoirs soon after. But this was not to be. In August that year, she had a stroke which changed her and our lives, and which put an end to her writing for a time. Paralysed on the left side, my mother was confined to a wheelchair and required 24-hour nursing care until her death in 2010. However, she did not let that deter her and she lived most of those eight years with her trademark feisty passion.  She journeyed to India some five months after the stroke to receive an award from India’s president. She continued to challenge injustices through her involvement with the Concerned Citizens Group in Chatsworth, through addressing gatherings, and even going on marches. In 2006, my mother resumed work on her memoirs with the help of Ramesh Harcharan, who had worked with her at 
the Institute for Black Research, with great dedication, for two decades. She dictated her thoughts to two typists who assisted with the writing process. I first saw pages of my mother’s autobiography around 2007 on one of my regular visits from Johannesburg to her home in Durban. As I read these pages I was charmed by the little girl who, when asked by her mothers to bring three or four pieces of wood for the cooking fire, pondered on whether she should bring three or four, and then decided to bring seven, since three plus four make seven. I was enchanted at her first memory of a patterned linoleum under a bed fringed with lace. I was in awe of the schoolgirl who fundraised for flood victims and who gave her first political speech and led a march aged 17. The narrative was beautifully well developed up to the end of the 1960s and I urged my mother to approach a publisher. Since Ramesh was now no longer working with her, I offered to help with the revisions, structure and reordering that were needed to complete the manuscript. I spent some weeks in 2007 and 2008 working with my mother, and my niece Nadia, Shehnaz’s daughter spent a week with my mother. Nadia and I read to my mother and we revised sections of the manuscript as she dictated changes, clarifications and nuances. By 2008, the narrative up to the 1960s was sufficiently well developed and I left this with my mother to look through and finalise. My mother agreed that I could make contact with a publisher, but she did not make any headway on finalising the script. It seemed to me she was not keen on finalising and I did not want to push her on this. Feeling her hesitation made me waver. Looking back, I think it was my mother’s concern that her book was incomplete that led to her hesitation in finalising the manuscript. It was a concern she seemed to have felt when working on my father’s autobiography, for she writes in her introductory note to that autobiography, fitting words: No biography or autobiography is a complete record. It is an abstract from the entirety, and so is this autobiography. My mother diedin 2010 after a final stroke. Many months after her death, I returned to the manuscript and worked on it as time allowed in between my own work. I checked facts, edited pages, making the section on our ancestors more readable (the complicated family history being difficult even for a family member to get one’s head around). I worked on family trees and a family glossary. I stopped working on the manuscript in October 2011 as life and work intervened, and it was only in 2015 that I resumed work on this, and put together the final chapter of her memoirs for the period 1970 to 2001. As can be expected this last chapter has a different flow to the previous sections of this book. To fragments of my mother’s writings for this period I have added extracts from her book Prison Diary to capture her experiences for these years. I went on to select photos to illustrate the text and I finally sent out the manuscript to publishers in March 2015. By early 2016 I was able to secure a publisher in Kwela and I undertook to do the work an author would to get the book published. It has been a rewarding and an emotional journey. It was a time of joy when I finally held the book in my hands. I think my mother would be happy with the book that we have before us today. My sister Shehnaz, my brother Rashid and I were fortunate to be the children of two powerful, upstanding people. If it is true that children choose their parents, we chose well. As many of you know, both my parents were part of the organised resistance against apartheid. My mother from the age of 17. In 1946, she took part in the passive resistance campaign. In the 1950s and 1960s she took part in campaigns against the Group Areas act and detention without trial; she was a founding member of the Durban and District Women’s League and of Fedsaw; in the 1970s, 1980s and 1990s she took part in campaigns against apartheid. My father was active from the 1940s as a member of the Transvaal Indian Congress, Natal Indian Congress, SACP, and as secretary of a teachers' trade union. Both my parents served terms of banning orders and detention. My father was one of the Treason Triallists in 1956, being on trial for just over a year in Johannesburg, while my mother then aged 28, had to care for three small children, their home, and my father’s law practice, even as she worked to earn a living as a tutor at the University 
of Natal. In 1960, my father was again detained without trial in nationwide arrests following the Sharpville Massacre. He was banned and listed as a communist and this curtailed his active political involvement. My mother was banned in the 1950s, 1970s and 1980s. She was detained without trial in 1976 together with Winnie Mandela and other political activists. My parents' home was petrol-bombed on two occasions in the 1970s and 1980s and there was an attempt on my mother’s life in 1977. But the focus of this autobiography is not of the Struggle and my mother’s fearless resistance. The political events of the time and my parents' involvement, form rather the backdrop against which a personal story is told. My mother shares with us as readers her memories from as early as three years old. We go through the many houses and the neighbourhoods she lived in. Beginning in Grey Street where she was born, we move with her to Wentworth, back to Convent Lane in the city centre, then on to Ritson Road and to Pinetown. We read of stolen moments of mischief and fun of the ragamuffin gang that she and her brothers made up, playing in the streets of central Durban. We read of her adored father and two mothers, and their large extended family.  Of family outings and gatherings. Of her early years in madressa and school and her love of the cinema. We read of how she was doted upon by her parents and her two uncles - her mother’s brother Cass and her father’s brother AI Meer. We accompany this girl child, favoured as the only girl in the family in her first 7 years, as she grows into a young woman. We read of her growing political and social consciousness in a family whose members challenge conventionality.  Her father and his brother challenge the moulanas. Her parents' cousin Choti Khala challenges women’s subordination, her uncle Gora Mamoo challenges white domination. Her brother Ismail, studying in India, becomes involved in Bengal relief activities and spurs her on to undertake fundraising for this cause as a 16-year-old in Durban. Her uncle AI Meer takes her to political meetings from an early age and as joint secretary of the NIC, arranges for her to give her first political speech aged 17. Then come her university years. We see a young woman forging a relatively independent life as a university student in Johannesburg, away from the family cocoon. She challenges the restrictions placed on women in the Indian Muslim community of the time. The most alarming for the Fordsburg community, who immediately alert her parents, is that she is seen putting up posters on Fordsburg streets, in the company of a white man - a fellow NEUM (Non-European Unity Movement) student. Joining the NEUM was in itself an expression of her independence coming as she did from a family steeped in the Congress tradition. Not bound by convention and not used to their restrictions she does not fit in with the family she boards with and they make clear that they will not take her back after the mid-year holiday. Accommodation difficulties among other things result in her returning to Durban. She continues her university studies in Durban, and she falls in love, gets engaged, married and starts a life of her own, first in Umgeni Road and then in Burnwood Road. We read of her passionately tempestuous relationship with my father. He most likely expecting that two become one in marriage on the man’s terms. She fiercely struggles with this. She throws away her engagement ring in anger against him. Once married she accedes to his pressure not to see her male friends or to ride a bicycle as he sees these as "not becoming of a married woman". Yet she has too much of a sense of herself - forged in the family of her birth - to be a docile wife. She challenges his bad temper. We get a glimpse into this relationship as a site of struggle. She cannot be the compliant person he believes a wife should be, yet he admires her feistiness, and she is drawn and held by him for all the years of their marriage until his death in 2000. At the end of the book my mother reminisces on her relationship with my father a year after his death in 2001- noting that this was the most important relationship in her life. In this book we get a glimpse of our life as a family and of my parents' relationship during the Treason Trial in 1956 and my father’s detention in 1960. We see my mother emerging as a resistance campaigner in her own right. The fragments of my mother’s writings for the period 1970 to 2001 cover her first visit to India, her detention in 1976 - the year of the Soweto uprising. It offers a glimpse into her activities in the 1970s - founding the Black Women’s Federation, Institute for Black Research, starting up education projects to advance school and university education of black students, setting up a craft and secretarial school, and publishing the many books she was to author and edit - among these books on Gandhi and Mandela. She writes briefly of her involvement in UDF activism in the 1980s in the context of increased violence. Amidst the political turmoil she shares also the joys and the pain of her personal life. She writes of the joys of becoming a grandmother five times over from 1980 into the 1990s; and of the precious time spent with her grandchildren. She writes of her son, my brother Rashid, of his exile in 1977 - following his detention in 1976 and banning on his release. She shares her intense pain on the death of Rashid in a car accident in 1995 on his return from exile. My mother shares her pain as she reflects on the state of our country in 2000. My mother writes of her involvement in the post-1994 South Africa with communities resisting evictions and disconnections of their water and electricity supplies, her role in setting up the Concerned Citizens Group, and the Durban Social Forum. Her reflections on the state of our country in 2000 are just as fitting for the crisis we face today. My mother writes: “Cry the beloved country! Many things have improved since 1994. For one thing racial laws have disappeared. However, the aspirations of the Freedom Charter - the only historic document that we have registering people’s voices and dreams - have not been realised. "By 2000 we do not have a leadership committed to fighting poverty - we have a corrupt leadership. That is our tragedy. If resources are reserved for only the wealthy, if government shows a commitment only to the middle class then all I can say is 'cry the beloved country, and cry and cry and cry'! "And those of us who can shout no matter how many years we have lived on this earth, we must get up and shout. I have always stood for the poor and the rights of the poor and though I and all my friends have been in the ANC for over 60 years, if I have to stand against the organisation to address the needs of the vast majority of South African citizens then I will unhappily do so. We have to be in the process of perpetual revolution to progress and guarantee the rights of people. There can be no peacetime so long as there is poverty and hunger and so long as basic human rights are trodden. The cause of rampant crime in our country is inequality. We are the second most unequal country in the world. More than half the population lives in poverty. Can we call this living in peace? "The definition of peace is equity, harmony, not starvation. I believe we need to strengthen the numerous community-based organisations in our country and increase the voices of civil society.” Winnie Mandela in the foreword to the book says: “If Fatima was alive she would be contributing robustly to the current national debate about the grave problems we are faced with today such as the rumoured state capture, corruption and graft.” Working on this book has been for me more than the labour of love of a daughter for her mother. It is my tribute not only to my mother but to all the women who contributed to our struggle and who get forgotten in a world, which despite our best efforts continues to be male dominated. Let us hope that this book will inspire new generations of young women and men to continue the struggle for justice and peace.