Speaker Baleka Mbete could decide in the next few days whether to allow a vote of no confidence in President Jacob Zuma. Opposition parties said yesterday South Africa was in a crisis and there was no time to waste because further downgrades by other ratings agencies were on the cards. They said the sooner Parliament dealt with the Zuma issue, the better. They want the president gone and a new leader installed. The opposition parties said the economy was in a mess and that Zuma was to blame for this. DA chief whip John Steenhuisen said Mbete must have finished her consultation process with Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa and ANC chief whip Jackson Mthembu on the no-confidence motion. Steenhuisen said other ratings agencies would follow the decision of Standard & Poor’s to downgrade South Africa to junk status. The ACDP's Steve Swart said Moody’s had already warned South Africa of a downgrade. “If other agencies follow S&P’s lead, the rand will further devalue. He added this would "substantially increase the cost of living, and more importantly, the cost of government borrowing, leaving it with less to spend on an already hampered and inefficient service delivery”. The EFF and UDM also want Mbete to take decisive action and set a date for a debate on a motion of no confidence. Spokesperson for Parliament Moloto Mothapo said yesterday Mbete was committed to the consultation process. She had indicated she was going to start with the consultation yesterday and had stuck to that, said Mothapo. However, he declined to say who the speaker had met to discuss the request by opposition parties. He said the consultation would not take long. After the downgrade by S&P Global on Monday, the other ratings agencies were also expected to announce their reviews. Moody’s, which was expected to announce its decision on Friday, shifted the announcement for 30 to 90 days to allow for a review. However, this followed Moody’s warning to South Africa of a downgrade. Fitch had not given an indication on when it would announce its assessment. It was the only ratings agency which had not yet announced its position on the cabinet reshuffle, including the axing of Pravin Gordhan as finance minister.