Gauteng drivers are no closer to knowing the legality of the e-toll system as legal engagements between Sanral and the Organisation Undoing Tax Abuse (Outa) regarding a test case broke down this week. Legal representatives for Sanral and Outa have been engaged since last year on a possible test case. Outa sought to defend 152 of its members who received summonses from Sanral for non-payment of e-toll debt. Outa’s portfolio director for transport, Ben Theron, yesterday blamed the breakdown of theengagements on Sanral, saying the road agency was intentionally obstructive because it knows that the e-toll system was "implemented illegally". “We are saying that the system was implemented illegally, so Sanral cannot generate income on an illegal system," Theron said. ‘‘The point we are making is: Let’s get to court to determine whether or not the system is legal. What’s happening now is that Sanral is quietly going to court and saying that (drivers) owe them money, and they are going for default judgement processes. ‘‘We think that this tactic from Sanral is underhanded." However, Sanral’s general manager for communications, Vusi Mona, said that it was Outa that caused the breakdown in negotiations as the civil group did not negotiate the terms of the agreement for a test case in good faith. “The negotiations have therefore come to an end and Outa’s clients will need to proceed to file their pleas and the matters will proceed as trial actions. Sanral could not continue negotiating a possible test case in the absence of defined rules and clear timelines,” Mona said. He added that Sanral will continue to seek default judgements against non-paying drivers who have received summonses, saying that the road agency has an obligation in terms of the Public Finance Management Act to collect all outstanding monies. “But we also have a responsibility towards the paying road users to ensure that these outstanding monies are collected,” Mona said. Constitutional law expert, Professor Shadrack Gutto, said that it will be “very difficult” for Sanral to win any e-toll cases in court because Outa represents a broad spectrum of society, a vast majority of unions were against e-tolls, and Sanral will be bankrupt should it pursue each case on its own. “But Sanral has to try its luck in court because it is a business and, although it is state-owned, it is still a business and needs to make profit in order to be sustainable,” Gutto said. Last month, it was reported that Ekurhuleni-based company One Stop Building Supplies was ordered in January to pay Sanral R436 407.56, for non-payment of an e-toll debt, by the High Court in Pretoria in what was a default judgement in the road agency’s favour.