Musical spectacle and Broadway classic Sarafina has been hit by a payment muddle after unpaid cast and crew refused to perform. The actors of the new and revived 80s hit refused to go to the stage for their daily performance of the remake of Mbongeni Ngema’s musical from Wednesday, forcing the South African State Theatre (SAST) to cancel all shows until Sunday. The chief executive, Dr Sibongseni Mkhize, said the decision followed “challenges” that occurred on Wednesday when cast members refused to perform for a scheduled show over unpaid salaries. “We as the SAST management are disheartened by these unfortunate developments, which have marred what was proving to be a highly successful season,” Mkhize said. The issues stemmed from a payment dispute where it is alleged the Department of Arts and Culture (DAC) and Committed Artists, a South African theatre company, have not paid what is owed to the production. “We wish to emphasise that the show has not been closed, but the SAST management have temporarily suspended performances until the funding issues between the DAC and Committed Artists are resolved.” The iconic show’s opening night was on March 10 and the closing night is scheduled to be May 20. Mkhize indicated that although Sarafina was not a State Theatre production, the fact that it was being presented there had serious implications for the theatre’s reputation. He said they would continue monitoring the discussions between the department and Committed Artists and apologised for all inconvenience caused. Audiences have filled theatre every day from Tuesday to Sunday, after an opening night which drew the who’s who of the arts world, government officials, corporate heads and the cast and crew of the original production. Sarafina is the brainchild of legendary playwright Mbongeni Ngema, and was first seen at the Market Theatre in Johannesburg in June 1987. The play, with lead actress Leleti Khumalo, was taken to Broadway in the US and adapted into a feature film with Hollywood star Whoopi Goldberg and South African songbird Miriam Makeba. Ngema resurrected the stage production with a younger cast this year, and said at the premier that he hoped the show would continue for a few years. The current young lead actress is Noxolo Dlamini, a 23-year-old University of Pretoria graduate. This is not the first time Ngema has been embroiled in a payment dispute. In December 2012, dancers Ngema contracted for the Siyagiya Cultural Extravaganza were not paid the amounts promised to them. This saw them spending the festive period out of pocket. Ngema’s spokesperson at the time said the money promised to them by the National Lottery was paid later than expected and payments would be made in full. The State Theatre, too, is not new to such drama. In 2015, Mandela The Opera hit a bump when producer Unathi Mtirara did not pay actors.