Residents in Mid-Illovo outside Pietermaritzburg have called on Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane to investigate delays in settling their land claims “before someone gets killed”. Several people who led their communities in lodging land claims when the land restitution process opened more than 20 years ago said they were living in fear of other claimants who suspected they had cheated them. Mkhwebane visited the area as part of her “introduction tour” yesterday. She said that since taking office, this was the first time she had been confronted with complaints resulting from the delays in settling claims. She promised to take up the matter with the relevant departments. “The complaints we have received in the past were about illegal evictions and ways of protecting the rights of people residing on farms, and extending their tenure,” she said. Those who said they had been waiting for settlements for the past two decades expressed their frustrations. Mboneni Ndlovu said he was part of a leadership structure that had lodged a land claim on behalf of his community in 1998. “We ask you to intervene because these delays have put our lives in danger. The community no longer trust that the claims have not been settled. They suspect we have kept the money for ourselves,” he said. Khehla Bhengu said: “This is causing friction among community members. Can you investigate this, if only to assure the community that no money has been paid out?” Another community member who also led his community when lodging their application in 1998 said: “You cannot even buy a car without the community thinking that the government has paid out the money, and you are using that money for yourself.” Besides the delays in land settlements, the community also complained about basic service delivery issues like water and electricity. They claimed they had been without water for the past month. The clinic is also without water. Mkhwebane said of her visit: “The former public protector did not visit areas like these… we do not have many complaints from (them).”