The credit downgrades by two rating agencies will force the ANC to re-examine its proposed radical economic policies, upon which the party desperately hopes it will help it retain its grip on power in 2019. As the party’s policy and elective conferences approach, its senior leaders in the ANC economic transformation committee conceded that the downgrades will have an adverse impact on some of policy initiatives to ensure radical economic change. A recession, which the committee admitted was a possibility, would also lead to job loses and hamper chances to create employment for the youth. Leaders in the subcommittee also hastened to clarify that land expropriation without compensation was not ANC policy, but that there would be a debate in the run-up to the party’s conference. The scramble was on to avoid a third downgrade rating by Moody’s. The committee’s head, Enoch Godongwana, admitted that the party will have to re-examine its mooted radical policies in light of the downgrades. “A deterioration in South Africa’s credit rating will have a major negative impact on our country’s ability to raise debt funding for its development programmes,” he said. Last week, two rating agencies – Fitch and S&P Global Ratings – downgraded South Africa’s sovereign credit rating to sub-investment grade or junk status. Programmes such as the re-industrialisation of the economy through manufacturing to create jobs, among others, would derail inclusive economic growth. And government will also be forced to cut spending, and re-prioritise. Godongwana said it was important that everyone – including senior ANC leaders – understood the impact that the downgrades will have on the economy. “We need to grapple with everybody understanding the consequences of junk status. We need to pull together and understand the implications of junk status, particularly if we want to help the finance minister (Malusi Gigaba),” he said. “Those comrades who do not understand the phenomenon… We still have to engage them and make them understand the consequences precisely… It is important for a message from the leadership in support of what the minister is saying… “If we are saying something different, the minister of finance will be undermined.” A member of the subcommittee and Rural Development and Land Reform Minister Gugile Nkwinti said though the country does not see the downgrades as fair, work had to be done to get out of it. “How do we as the government of South Africa get ourselves out of junk status? “We need to ensure that there is political courage to build the technical capacity of the state, that policies of state are implemented and that there are consequences when these are not implemented.” Nkwinti said a recession would only leave more people unemployed, especially the youth. Despite the downgrades, the government had to continue with its programme of turning the country into a construction site, he said. Professor Imraan Valodia, of Wits University, said it might be harder to reduce unemployment and implement industrialisation, but it was not impossible.