Festival director Billy Domingo said: “We knew we had a great line-up, but the response has exceeded expectation; from the crowds that queued to see Thandiswa Mazwai last night (sold out show at Rosie’s stage) to packed stages for young artists like Tom Misch, who played to a capacity crowd on the newly positioned bass-line stage, there was a whole new energy and appreciation.” He said the artists themselves had also appreciated being in Cape Town, commenting on Facebook, tweeting and using other social media platforms. According to Domingo, these strangers who had been welcomed to Cape Town would now leave as friends of the Mother City. “One of my personal highlights was seeing the Chris Hani High School take to the stage for the first time at the festival. "They have been attending the training and development workshops for seven years, but 2017 was their year.” He said giving a platform to aspiring musicians and exposing them to the professional entertainment realm formed the crux of what the festival aimed to do. “Exposing visitors, local and international, to fresh and established performers makes it exciting and is what keeps this festival at the forefront of musical entertainment in South Africa. “The weekend ended with a performance of the All Stars School Band in Langa at the iKapa lunch, and another sold-out event - what a fantastic way to end the 18th Cape Town International Jazz Festival.” Spokesperson for one of the festival's major sponsors, Independent Media's Lutfia Vayej, said: “The organisers of the festival, espAfrika, have once again put on an outstanding jazz festival that truly lives up to being called Africa’s Grandest Gathering.” She said the many side events leading up to the festival, like the art, journalism, photography and music workshops, the focus on nurturing local talent and job creation had added value to company's investment in the festival. “Of course, this was also a great opportunity for us to indirectly and directly engage with our readers and advertisers.”