The decision by rating agency S&P Global to downgrade South Africa’s sovereign rating to junk status came as a result of “self-inflicted pain” and bad leadership from President Jacob Zuma, the Federation of Unions of South Africa (Fedusa) said on Monday night. While UDM leader Bantu Holomisa said in a statement Zuma’s cabinet reshuffle has caused “radical economic transformation” of a different kind. "Zuma bandies this phrase about, making a sweeping statement, without any clear policy detailing what his radical economic transformation entails. This not only confuses South Africans, but any international would-be investors are surely looking elsewhere to spend their money. "We might as well use the term 'junk status' to describe our government," said Holomisa. Fedusa general secretary Dennis George, who was with axed finance minister Pravin Gordhan and his deputy, Mcebisi Jonas, in London before the two were called back home, said he was extremely concerned.  “All these things are self-inflicted pain. We were going to London, New York and Boston to meet with ratings agencies and investors, then the president decided to cancel the trip, call back the minister of finance and announce in the night a cabinet reshuffle, and this is the consequences of bad leadership,” said George. “This is really not acceptable. You see what happened to Greece when they were downgraded to junk status. It makes economic policy management much more difficult.”  George said Zuma had not learnt his lesson from 9/12 – the date in 2015 when he fired finance minister Nhlanhla Nene – before replacing him with little known (at the time) Des van Rooyen, then reappointed Gordhan to the position after billions were wiped from South Africa’s stock and bond markets as a result of the reshuffle. “It’s like a person that doesn’t learn the importance of managing an economy. We must come up with a strategy to manage these things. Investors are jittery. “The point is this downgrade affects the entire country’s ability to raise capital. Certain institutions and investors are not allowed to buy bonds of countries which have been downgraded to junk status,” said George.  Not even a week after weed is made legal and we are already junkies #junkstatus  — Renaldo Gouws (@RenaldoGouws) April 3, 2017  Standard and Poor’s (S&P) Global on Monday pointed to President Jacob Zuma’s late-night cabinet reshuffle as it announced it had cut South Africa’s credit rating to junk status. The international ratings agency said it was their opinion that “the executive changes initiated by President Zuma have put at risk fiscal and growth outcomes”. The news comes as pressure on Zuma mounts to resign from opposition parties, civil society groups and even those within his own party. It emerged on Monday that the ruling ANC integrity commission, chaired by one of the last two living members of the Rivonia trial following the death of Struggle stalwart Ahmed Kathrada last week, would meet Zuma and ask him for a second time to step down.  The reshuffle split the party, with even senior ANC leaders, including Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa, secretary general Gwede Mantashe, and treasurer-general Zweli Mkhize voicing their displeasure at the reshuffle – specifically the axing of Gordhan and Jonas – two of the most trusted cabinet ministers in many circles. S&P lowered the country’s long-term foreign currency sovereign credit rating from ‘BBB-‘ to ‘BB+’, which is one notch below investment grade, or so-called junk status. The agency also cut South Africa’s long-term local currency rating to ‘BBB-‘ from ‘BBB’. The outlook on all the long-term ratings was negative, the agency said, adding that it had assessed that contingent liabilities to the state were rising.  Removing any doubts about the connection to last week’s late-night cabinet reshuffle, the agency said the downgrade “reflects our view that the divisions in the ANC-led government that have led to changes in the executive leadership, including the finance minister, have put policy continuity at risk”. “The negative outlook reflects our view that political risks will remain elevated this year, and that policy shifts are likely, which could undermine fiscal and economic growth outcomes more than we currently project.” S&aP singled out the energy sector among these “rising contingent liabilities”, expressing the concern that “previous plans to improve the underlying financial position of Eskom may not be implemented in a comprehensive and timely manner”. The agency said it was also of the view that higher risks of budgetary slippage would put upward pressure on South Africa’s cost of capital, “further dampening already modest growth”.  “Internal government and party divisions could, we believe, delay fiscal and structural reforms, and potentially erode the trust that had been established between business leaders and labour representatives (including in the critical mining sector).” S&P noted that negative sentiment might result in businesses holding back investments that would otherwise have supported economic growth. “We think that ongoing tensions and the potential for further event risk could weigh on investor confidence and exchange rates, and potentially drive increases in real interest rates.” S&P also mentioned increased risk that public enterprises would “need further extraordinary government support”. The agency estimates that “guarantee utilisations”, dominated by Eskom, would reach R500 billion by 2020. The country’s pace of economic growth also remained a weakness, the agency said. S&P added that if fiscal and macroeconomic performance deteriorated substantially from its baseline forecasts, a further downgrade could be on the cards. On the other hand, it added, “we could revise the outlook to stable if we see political risks reduce and economic growth and/or fiscal outcomes strengthen compared to our baseline projections”. Treasury released a statement shortly after the S&P announcement, noting the downgrade, adding “government has been, and will remain, committed to a measured fiscal consolidation that stabilises the rise in public debt”. African News Agency