The Basic Education Department is trying to recover more than R1.5 million from volunteers who fraudulently claimed payments of stipends in one of its programmes aimed at reducing adult illiteracy levels. The department is now considering using the services of the Asset and Forfeiture Unit to recoup the money that was fraudulently obtained by volunteers in the Kha Ri Gude mass literacy programme, who had registered “deceased” pupils to receive extra payments. In reply to questions by the DA, Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga said the department had by March recovered R474 737 of the R1.5m fraudulently received by volunteers who were identified in an internal investigation. “The balance (R1 075 161) will, where possible, be deducted from the affected volunteers when remaining payments are processed,” Motshekga said. She said the Asset Forfeiture Unit was on the case to recoup the money on instruction from Parliament's standing committee on public accounts. “The department engaged the Hawks regarding the matter, who advised that the relevant body which needs to deal with the matter is the Asset and Forfeiture Unit,” Motshekga said. The fraud in the department was sparked by an audit query by Auditor-General Kimi Makwetu, who found the department had fruitless and wasteful expenditure amounting to R44m in the 2015/16 year. The amount was later revised to R1 549 899 after the department had conducted a probe to ascertain the exact amount. Motshekga said auditors had raised red flags after stumbling upon fictitious payments made to volunteers in the Kha Ri Gude project. “The auditors found that there was registration of deceased learners before the start of the campaign resulting in the over-payments of stipends to educators, supervisors, co-ordinators and the project- management company on account of fraudulent claims.” Motshekga said the alleged fraudulent cases were investigated and it was found that 90 volunteers were involved in the scam. “Ninety volunteers were found guilty through the departmental internal processes. Ninety volunteers were identified to have been paid a total of R282 297 without any learners,” she said in one set of replies to the questions. The identified volunteers were removed from the campaign, she said.