As young women living in Manenberg, we face challenges and trauma that no child should face, but this is our reality. It is all we know, but we know that we deserve better. Being a female in Manenberg seems safer than being a male. In our experience, most of the men are caught up in gang culture. Even those who are not part of gangs, even those who refuse, are dragged in and searched for some sign of allegiance. It sometimes seems like there is no end to gang culture and violence. Manenberg is not a bad place and the people aren’t bad people. We are all simply trying to survive, and support our families. We are caught in the crossfire, literally and figuratively. We have seen stray bullets fly through our kitchen windows. We have seen our peers been sucked into the drug trade, at our schools. Although it sometimes seems like there are no safe spaces in Manenberg, we have people who remind us that that is not the case. We are fortunate enough to have incredible, strong women in our lives. Our mothers and grandmothers are selfless, and all our lives we have felt valued and known that we are a priority. We have been nurtured and taught that our voices matter. We have been shown what it means to be truly brave; in the face of violence, these women are more concerned for us, and all other children than they are for themselves. To us it can seem like powerlessness is inescapable. The circumstances that we were born into might have been largely beyond our parents' control but they, and other members of our community, have supported us and encouraged us, and in doing so made it possible for us to have a variety of opportunities; to rise above our circumstances, to broaden our horizons and to use our experiences to strengthen ourselves. We have learnt that violence is not the same as power, and that we do have power. Rock Girls has empowered us as young women. It gives us a safe space with a group of girls who have experiences like our own, which creates a sisterhood of sorts. It has given us another support system and exposed us to a variety of people, places, and new experiences. We have become part of something bigger than ourselves; it has started to change the way we think and the way we feel. It has changed our perspective on life and given us hope that we can, and will, rise above the violence of our circumstances.