The disruption of the Durban leg of the Ahmed Kathrada memorial service by members of the ANC Youth League (ANCYL) was not only an insult to Kathrada’s memory, but to all of those who died fighting for democracy, justice and non-racialism, ANC stalwarts and veterans said on Tuesday. “As stalwarts we have to ask, who benefits from this type of uncomradely activity and what message does it send to loyal members of the ANC? What message does it send to the people of our beloved country and those who have supported the ANC? Finally, what message does it send to our youth? Does it give them hope for the future? Do they see these type of disruptions as acceptable and in their interests?” the veterans asked. Chaotic scenes marred the Kathrada memorial in Durban on Saturday when speakers such as former finance minister Pravin Gordhan and ANC treasurer-general Zweli Mkhize were heckled by supporters of President Jacob Zuma, mostly ANCYL members in the audience. Organisers of the event, the Concerned Citizens Movement (CSM), had obtained a court order barring the ANCYL from disrupting or intimidating anyone at the memorial service, but this was ignored by youth league members. Mkhize was drowned out during his speech. The ANCYL sang pro-Zuma slogans and chanted while Mkhize was on the podium speaking. The stalwarts and alliance partners such as the SACP and Cosatu had to make “difficult decisions” and call for Zuma to step down in the midst of the crisis the ANC faced, the stalwarts said. “We have seen our alliance partners making difficult decisions and recommendations about the president of our country and the ANC. No senior member of the ANC would show leadership and make a similar call unless the crisis we face was not deep and involved a president who does not consult in the tradition of our movement and as required by ANC policy. "A president that makes cabinet decisions not based on performance and integrity, a president who is part of a project to collapse the constitutional separation of state and party… A president who says there is no crisis.” The more than 100 ANC veterans and stalwarts, who include Ben Turok, Andrew Mlangeni, Gertrude Shope, Barbara Masekela, Barbara Hogan and Frank Chikane, have joined the growing call for Zuma to step down. African News Agency