The DA lodged papers in the Western Cape High Court yesterday, challenging President Jacob Zuma’s decision to axe former finance minister Pravin Gordhan and his deputy, Mcebisi Jonas. DA federal executive chairman James Selfe argued in the court papers that Zuma’s decision was unlawful, unconstitutional and irrational. He wants Zuma to furnish the court with the reasons for his decision to axe Gordhan and provide documents to back up his decision. He also argued the whole cabinet reshuffle was wrong and should be reconsidered. Zuma’s spokesperson, Bongani Ngqulunga, could not be reached for comment at the time of publishing. Selfe further described the decision to axe Gordhan as calamitous. “The dismissal decisions in question were of an extraordinarily serious and far-reaching nature. To simultaneously replace the minister of finance and deputy minister of finance is always a drastic step. To do so now, in the face of economic challenges facing South Africa and its attempts to maintain economic credibility and investment grade credit ratings, is all the more so,” argued Selfe in the court papers. He said this has led to Standard & Poor’s Global to downgrade South Africa to junk status this week. Selfe said Zuma had created the current crisis by firing Gordhan after he had done the same thing in December 2015 when he axed then-finance minister Nhlanhla Nene. That decision cost the country more than R500 billion in the market. Selfe said Zuma’s decision has been criticised by top ANC leaders including Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa and alliance partners. Selfe said Zuma has not given a public explanation as to why he had fired Gordhan and his deputy. He said the country has relied on Ramaphosa and other senior ANC leaders for the reasons. He said the reasons were that this was based on a dubious intelligence report that Gordhan was working with foreign forces to overthrow the state. “In the circumstances, the DA contends that the president’s dismissal decisions were unconstitutional, unlawful and invalid. In this regard, it is well-established that the exercise of every public power is subject to the principle of legality."