Reluctant former SADF conscript and now author Paul Morris and Cape Times columnist and Umkhonto we Sizwe (MK) veteran Shanil Haricharan spoke of their experiencesat a discussion hosted by Stellenbosch University. The public dialogue at the Stellenbosch University Museum yesterday, served as a platform to express the trauma and journey to healing and transformation for both men. Morris’s book Back to Angola chronicles his experiences as a young man serving in the South African Border War in 1987 and returning 25 years later to embark on a solo 1500km bicycle journey through the country. “There were many of us sent to a war, we didn’t completely understand and still carry its scars in many ways. "I had two maps of Angola in my mind, a war map where battles were fought and on my return I experienced a peace map where people were vibrant and had rebuilt their lives,” said Morris. He said he went through a journey which may not be possible for all the soldiers who experienced trauma. “Everyone’s experiences is different to mine and more needs to be done to provide psychological help to our veterans who may not have the resources. It’s only through reconciling with the past that we can move forward as we still see the remnants today,” said Morris. Haricharan became a student activist during the mid 1980s and later served in the Ashley Kriel Detachment while in the former Transkei. “I was a teacher by day sharing my dissident beliefs with my pupils and conducting my MK duties at night and weekends. ‘‘Paul and I met through a mutual friend in 2012 during his journey and hearing the other side's experiences, and learning how he dealt with his trauma was life-altering,” said Haricharan. He said he had grappled with the conflict within himself when he went from a person who practised non-violence to taking up arms with MK. “When I saw the violence that occurred on campuses (with Fees Must Fall protests), if I closed my eyes I could imagine it being the 1980s. There is a rage among students and the leaders are not empathetic enough, stereotyping students and answering them with violence which is too reminiscent,” said Haricharan. He said there were more stories to be shared, and these experiences would be needed for true transformation as there was still much anger within South Africa. Facilitator of the discussion Theresa Edlmann said society could not heal until the dead on all sides had been honoured. "Until we embrace the pain and the effects of systemic violence, South Africa as a society cannot move on and build a better future."  dominic.adriaanse@inl.co.za 