Dagga smokers must hold their horses: the legislation prohibiting the use of cannabis – or dagga as it is locally known – has not yet gone up in smoke. This is the warning of Myrtle Clarke, who, with her partner Julian Stobbs, is going to the high court in Pretoria to fight for the legalisation of dagga. Clarke is thrilled at the ruling by Judge Dennis Davis in the Western Cape High Court on Friday, which she said ticked the first box on the road to legalising dagga. But the fight had just begun. In terms of the judge’s ruling, which found certain legislation inconsistent with the constitution, adults may cultivate, possess and use dagga in the privacy of their own home. Judge Davis has given Parliament two years in which to change the law where it is in breach of the constitutional right to privacy. While this is very good news for Clarke and Stobbs, popularly known as the “dagga couple”, Clarke told The Star that it would take time before the law changes. Until then, there is a stay on dagga-related prosecutions, as Judge Davis indicated that his judgment could be used as a defence should someone want to use dagga in the privacy of their own home. “We don’t know what will happen in the meantime. Until the law changes, it is still not legal to smoke (dagga) in your own home,” and, said Clarke, the police could still arrest you. She said at present there were 44 cases of possession of dagga countrywide. While Judge Davis’s judgment was a step towards the legalisation of cannabis, Clarke and Stobbs’s case is much broader and will include evidence by experts related to the benefits of cultivating and using dagga for certain conditions. “Cannabis won’t save the world, but it is a cheap medicine,” said Clarke. The couple, through the organisation Fields of Green for All, are relying on the evidence of five local and two international experts to promote the cultivation of dagga and its use. It is not yet known how many experts the government might call to counter their application. One of the issues revolves around the trading of dagga; as Clarke said, to have dagga, one must buy it, if you don’t grow it yourself. There was an underground system in place but, once legalised, the sale of dagga could include a tax, which would bring benefits to the government.