This play, penned by English playwright and theorist Howard Barker, sees the strong-willed, opinionated, promiscuous and just a little too vain Venetian artist Galactia (dynamically portrayed by Jennifer Steyn), commissioned by the city’s committee to paint the 15th-century Battle of Lepanto, to showcase how great and noble the victory was. When Galactia decides to paint the reality of the battle from a different perspective of the truth - with broken spirits and flesh sliced with no “pretext for elegance” - she is met with great criticism from everyone, ironically everyone except the critics. In confronting her political sponsors as her real critics, the power and value of art as imitation of reality is revealed as it entices emotive reaction from those who stand witness to it. Galactia herself declares, “I am painting the battle... in such a way that anyone who looks at it will feel he is there, and wince in case an arrow should fly out of the canvas and catch him in the eye”. A vision which her patron the Doge of Venice (masterfully played by Graham Hopkins) at first praises as “Excellent! Marvellous!”, yet later turns against her for that same passionate artistic expression initially so admired. The play reveals the emotional reactions to the battle (arguably symbolic of all art) to range from positive, heartfelt compassion to the revelation of suppressed menace, depending on the social context of the eyes which look upon it. In fact, Galactia’s married lover and fellow artist Carpeta (young talent Khathushelo Ramabulana) is brought to tears by it. Within the midst of this all, there is undeniably a personal obsession at play alongside the subtext of the commissioned painting. It is after all, telling that Galactia’s daughters are named Supporta and Dementia. Scenes from an Execution is definitely not a comedy. Though, as the artist’s vision unfolds and both pride and prejudice is revealed through the sly manoeuvres of the Venetians who all feel it their duty to make every opportunity (no matter how unfortunate) work in their favour, Barker’s text reveals a sarcastic, dark comedy undertone that definitely incites audience reaction. Every single performer on the stage clearly gives it their all in trying to do justice to their characters, and every character is essential, giving voice to a different perspective of reality. What is especially fascinating and even telling of such differing perspectives, is the feminist stand-off between Galactia and her daughter Supporta. While Galactia is unashamedly a woman carving out her equal rights position among her male peers in the most unapologetic manner, her daughter reminds of a more mainstream feminist who doesn’t have insight into her mother’s strong-willed position. In its bold, perhaps deceptively lush, telling of Galactia’s revolt against authority, Scenes from an Execution is indeed a thought-provoking theatre night out, with great performances by Jennifer Steyn, Lauren Blackwell (Supporta) and Cleo Raatus (Prodo). Mention must be made of Phoebe Ritchie’s beautifully haunting voice as Dementia too. The stand-out performance though has to be Graham Hopkins as Urgentino, the Doge of Venice. The manner in which he gives complexity to such a very superficial character, and makes him almost charming in a kind of off way, is the type of performance that makes this play worth the ticket price and more. Through his performance and onstage energy he also elevates those of Admiral Suffici (played by Nicky Rebelo with the appropriate degree of misplaced grandeur) and the Critic Rivera (eloquently portrayed by Elizabeth Akudugu). Director Clare Stopford clearly allows her cast to play to their strengths in giving their characters artistic life. Scenes from an Execution, at the Baxter Theatre until 22 April. Tickets for this staging available at Computicket.