"In light of ongoing intimidation of SABC journalists, particularly those who spoke out against SABC management during the SABC inquiry, we view this latest 'break-in' as part of a much bigger co-ordinated campaign to intimidate and threaten SABC journalists," DA spokeswoman Phumzile van Damme said. The DA urged the South African Police Service (SAPS) to investigate this matter urgently. The party said that it was appalling that to date not a single person had been arrested for the death threats and break-ins at homes of the so-called "SABC 8", including the shooting in the face with an air rifle of one of them, she said. "Given a history in seizing laptops and involvement in campaigns to intimidate journalists – as was revealed during the SABC inquiry – the DA will request that the Inspector General of Intelligence Dr Sethlomamaru Dintwe investigate the State Security Agency's (SSA) possible involvement in this latest break-in and ongoing intimidation of journalists." On April 5, Dintwe agreed to the DA's request that he investigates the allegations by SABC journalists and staff that their mobile phones were intercepted and tapped by the SSA. The DA would ask that he add the latest allegations to his ongoing investigation. Journalists performed a fundamental role in South Africa's democracy to keep the public fully informed and any attempt by government to monitor their communications or intimidate their work should be viewed as an attack on press freedom, Van Damme said. DA chief whip John Steenhuisen would also take up with National Assembly Speaker Baleka Mbete how an office inside the Parliament precinct, protected by 24-hour SAPS guard, could be breached and thieved from. According to the opposition party, the circumstances appeared very suspicious and the DA would demand that the speaker give an explanation. "In a time of increasing state capture, and when the state's intelligence is now seemingly being used to intimidate journalists instead of protecting our people, we trust that the inspector general will thoroughly investigate the alleged tapping of SABC journalists and will deal with those responsible. The DA will not stand for any attempt by captured individuals or families to control and propagate the messages in the media," Van Damme said. Earlier, City Press newspaper reported that despite police security at all entry points in Parliament, the SABC offices were broken into and at least five computers were stolen on Friday night. Concerns had been raised as to why journalists’ computers were targeted. Eyebrows had also been raised because there was no sign of forced entry into the newsroom. Parliament had frequently invoked its status as a national key point to justify stringent security measures. It was therefore unclear how the SABC offices were targeted, the newspaper reported. The SABC offices were in the Marks Building which also housed the opposition parties’ offices. However, there were supposed to be police guards at the entrances of all the buildings as well as at all parliamentary gates. "SABC journalists interviewed by City Press, who cannot be named as they are not authorised to speak to the media, confirmed the theft of five laptop computers. The journalists said it was concerning that their computers were targeted and other portable electronic equipment in the office was left untouched," City Press reported. Two parliamentary sources reportedly said in light of the recent break-in at the offices of the chief justice in Johannesburg last month the SABC break-in was concerning. African News Agency