South Africans are taking to the streets tomorrow in a united call for President Jacob Zuma to step down. Johannesburg and Ekurhuleni residents will be taking part in several marches in the Joburg CBD and Parktown, with numerous suburbs hosting protests at parks across the city, including Kensington, Wychwood, Park Meadows and Linksfield. Joburg metro police spokesperson Superintendent Wayne Minnaar said yesterday he was aware of two marches. “The DA march will be in the inner city from the Westgate Transport Hub to Mary Fitzgerald Square and back. We expect this march to be big, with about 10 000 people. “It will be from 10am to 1pm and traffic will be diverted. We encourage motorists to avoid the western side of the CBD. “We ask those taking part to abide by the law. They must be orderly, there must be no violence or endangering of lives and no damage to property." Minnaar warned that the JMPD could not support illegal marches, stressing, “if it’s not approved, it’s considered an unprotected or illegal march”. Earlier, DA leader Mmusi Maimane said it amended the route and would no longer walk to Luthuli House or Beyers Naudé Square due to threats of violence. “We have been informed that the SAPS will be unable to protect our marchers and ensure their safety from threats of violence from the ANC. “Numerous threats have been received from the Youth League, as well as certain branches within the ANC. “Therefore, to ensure a safe, inclusive and non-partisan march which caters for all South Africans, the DA has taken a decision to amend the route and gathering point of our March for Change on Friday,” Maimane added, encouraging all people, including civil society and businesses, to join. In Ekurhuleni, residents under the banner Edenvale: Save our Country South Africa will join the rest of the country “in saying enough is enough”. The march will start from Horwoods Farm at 9am and the group plans to march to Edenvale Library to hand over a memorandum. The organisers of the Chains- 4Change SA movement, Brenda Stern and Joclyn Katzen, have encouraged those unable to join to create a human chain in their own space in solidarity. “Reasons range from work commitments to family responsibilities, to health issues but all South Africans want to have a voice on Friday,” Stern said. “We launched Chains- 4Change SA to encourage South Africans everywhere to stand up, step out and to say no more to Zuma and corruption. Our message is loud and clear – the power of the people is stronger than the people in power." Stern said they were facilitating the formation of human chains where people gather. “The initiative was launched on Facebook, and invitations were sent out to people to please post a venue where they are going to create a Chains4Change so that others in the area can join them. Chains4Change has so far confirmed human chains at 3 Alice Lane and 165 West Street in Sandton; Grayston Drive outside the shopping centre; Club Street, Linksfield; Boksburg and Walkerville. Those taking part have been asked to bring banners, vuvuzelas and flags.