The wartime psychological thriller Mine is a classic example of a high-concept film that painstakingly sets up its unusual premise, only to squander it. Mike (Armie Hammer) and Tom (Tom Cullen) are Marines in an unspecified North African country. When their scouting/sniper mission goes awry, the two men must walk across the desert toward an improvised extraction point – one that lies beyond a sign warning of a minefield. Both men step on mines, however, and after Tom dies, Mike quickly realises that he is unable to move his left foot from the unexploded device. With 52 hours until the proverbial cavalry arrives, and with limited supplies, he must come up with a way to survive. Over the course of the story, Mike starts to lose his resolve, and his wits. The protracted opening act of Mine is a tedious wait to get to the point at which Mike is left alone. The character of Tom is one we’ve seen in countless war films. He’s the optimistic motor-mouth who will not shut up, while Mike is the more tortured, taciturn type. Our interest in Mine is directly proportional to Mike’s sense of determination. In the first hours of his ordeal, he must contend with indifferent locals, enemy fire and even a sandstorm. This premise would be wildly implausible without Hammer, who makes for a compelling hero as he underplays Mike’s escalating sense of terror. For a while, anyway, Mine becomes a story about how military training can help prolong one’s survival, even when death seems certain. Lengthy exposure to the desert means that Mike’s grasp on reality will grow more tenuous, so Mine ends with many hallucinations and flashbacks. All of them are heavy-handed, with special effects re-creating mirages that only Mike can see. Like countless other movie
warriors, he comes from a broken home, and struggles to communicate with his girlfriend. In one of these hallucinations, his abusive father (Geoff Bell) appears to insult him, suggesting a metaphor for the test of will that Mike is undergoing. But his back-story offers virtually no additional intrigue or insight into his character, and Mine starts to lose momentum quickly. It ends with a grim, half-hearted joke it does not earn. Films such as Gravity and 127 Hours successfully used the trope of the hero, isolated in an extraordinary circumstance, as a means for hard-earned character development. Mine wants to continue in 
that tradition, but it lacks the depth – let alone the curiosity – to achieve it.