WITH all the fake news doing the rounds these days, let me tell you a true story for a change. It was sometime in the late 1980s when Pravin Gordhan – then working underground for the banned ANC – went missing before word got out he was being held in solitary confinement. Under apartheid’s pernicious laws, the police were not obliged to inform anyone – not even Pravin’s wife – that he was being held. Newspapers had to use their own ingenuity to figure it out. A local newspaper got wind that, after solitary confinement for several weeks, Gordhan had been taken to a local hospital for psychiatric treatment. The editor checked this out and two reporters who knew Pravin saw him through the hospital window and waved. He waved back. That's how they knew he was there. The editor approached the local SAP officer, but made no headway, except to be warned nothing was to be written about it. The newspaper then informed Mrs Gordhan about what they knew, and helped her get in touch with the security branch (apartheid’s secret police) who, unaware of the newspaper’s earlier conversation with the SAP, confirmed he was in hospital. She then told the newspaper of her conversation with the SB and the story revealing Gordhan’s whereabouts was splashed all over the front page the next day. This episode came flooding back to mind after I saw a poster being held up by an ANC Youth League supporter during the chaos of last week’s memorial for Ahmed Kathrada in Durban. The poster happened to catch my eye, not for any originality of thought or intellectual sharpness, but rather for its inexcusable ignorance. Aimed at Gordhan, it read: “Where were you during apartheid?” I’ll take the honour of answering that protester’s question. He was busy fighting a revolution so that everyone – including ill-informed placard bearers like you – can today enjoy the fruits of democracy, including the right to protest. It is because of the role of people like Gordhan that you are now able to enjoy the right of free speech, even when you misuse it to display such an abysmal ignorance of the truth. His struggle credentials are there for all to see, including his days of student activism at the University of Durban-Westville; his role in setting up grass-roots community organisations; his underground activities in the ANC and SACP; the launch of the United Democratic Front. Pravin may be out in the cold, but rest assured he’s well insulated – both by the truth and overwhelming support from South Africans. dennis.pather@telkomsa.net ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Newspapers. SUNDAY TRIBUNE