Depression is the focus for this year's World Health Day under the slogan: "Depression: let’s talk". One in six South Africans suffer from some form of depression. Yet only a quarter of people living with a mental illness ever seek or receive treatment. Depression is the leading cause of suicide globally and in South Africa, there are 23 suicides every day, and 460 attempted suicides every 24 hours. “Men are more likely to commit suicide than women as they don’t seek help until it’s too late,” South African Depression and Anxiety Group (Sadag) director Cassey Chambers said. PsychMG board member Mvuyiso Talatala said the significant increase in the documented number of people suffering from major depressive disorder is as a result of increased awareness of the disorder as well as people seeking help. “Due to limited funding for mental health and a delay in implementing appropriate policies, there is still an emphasis on the treatment of more severe illnesses such as bipolar disorder and schizophrenia," Talatala said. "There is less funding for treatment of depression at primary health-care level in the public sector, and in outpatient care in the private sector. The funding is skewed towards hospital-based care in both public and private sector and this is more apparent in the private sector." In a statement, the national Health Department said many who suffer from depression do so in silence, for fear of being  discriminated against. “While South Africa has a limited number of mental health professionals such as psychiatrists and psychologists, especially in the public sector, and this is something that needs to be improved; together with increasing other health personnel, we do 
provide assistance to people with mental health problems at all levels of the health system, including at primary health-care level,” the statement reads. To speak to a Sadag counsellor, call 0800 21 22 23 or SMS 31393 if you or some one close to you are going through depression and need help. Or visit the website www.sadag.org for more information.