The eighth man accused of being behind the daring multimillion-rand OR Tambo International Airport heist said he was not emotionally equipped to withstand continued imprisonment. This was heard during his bail application yesterday at the Kempton Park Magistrate's Court. Philakuhle Comos Ntanzi, as well as seven other suspects, stand accused of robbery with aggravated circumstances after a group of armed men posing as police officers made off with R20.7 million during the airport robbery, which took place last month. His defence attorney, advocate Welcome Ndlovu, read Ntanzi’s affidavit into the record and told the court that his client’s continued incarceration was having an emotional toll on him. He also stated that his client had not been furnished with the details of the charges he was being accused of. “The State’s case is weak. I was not arrested in or near the scene, neither was I in possession of ammunition when I was arrested,” Ntanzi said in his affidavit. He continued: “No money or anything related to allegations was found on me and I have not been linked in any way to evidence or video footage, there is no forensic evidence and nobody has identified me as being involved in the robbery. "I am not emotionally equipped to be kept in incarceration.” However, State prosecutor advocate Jacob Serepo said Ntanzi was key to the robbery and that he had been briefed about the planned heist. Serepo, who was reading the Hawks' investigating officer Colonel Samuel Mahlangu’s affidavit, said Ntanzi had an alliance with four outstanding suspects from Zimbabwe, while others were still at large. Mahlangu said Ntanzi allegedly picked up one of the suspects and was briefed of the plan before he dropped him off at an Engen garage and contributed a figure of R1 000, but did not specify what the money was for. “Upon his arrest, officers found a document with names of other suspects and their cellphone numbers. This should have encouraged him to tip off the police,” Mahlangu said in his affidavit. He opposed Ntanzi’s bail application, saying he would be a flight risk and thus would evade a lengthy jail term. Despite this, Ndlovu argued that apart from the warning statement which implicated his client, there was no evidence that implicated him. “If we remove the accused's own warning statement, there is nothing there that implicates him,” Ndlovu said. “Even if we take the warning statement, the applicant doesn’t say I was involved in the commission (of the robbery). "On page 4, he is saying 'I was briefed about the planning when I went to drop him at the garage', but does not specify when, and which Engen garage.” Magistrate Gmukelani Msimeki postponed the matter to tomorrow, when judgment on Ntanzi’s bail application is expected to be handed down.