The National Day of Action – a rally and march tomorrow in Pretoria to put pressure on President Jacob Zuma to step down – was only just the beginning. EFF leader Julius Malema said yesterday rolling mass action would be the order of the day until the 2019 general elections if Zuma did not heed the call by opposition parties to step down. The participants will gather at Church Square in the heart of the capital from 9am and proceed to the Union Buildings at 12pm in the second mass action against the president in under a week. The capital's metro police spokesperson Senior Superintendent Isaac Mahamba said Madiba, Edmond and Hamilton streets would be closed completely for buses to park. “Metro Police officers will be deployed to monitor the march and all affected streets. Motorists are advised to avoid the affected streets and use alternative routes,” he said. Other streets to be affected are Lillian Ngoyi, Sisulu, Du Toit, Nelson Mandela Drive, Edmond, Hamilton and Thabo Sehume. Malema, addressing the media alongside other opposition leaders in Pretoria, said the steering committee for the protest received proposals to stage another on April 27, Freedom Day. More anti-Zuma activities had also been suggested in different provinces, he said. “The more the ANC keeps Zuma, the better for all of us (as political parties); they are going to lose elections,” he said. Malema however said the ANC should not keep Zuma as the president because it was not good for the country. He applauded the UDM for its legal action at the Constitutional Court, calling for the Speaker of Parliament Baleka Mbete to allow MPs to vote by secret ballot on April 18. The day has been set aside for yet another motion of no confidence against Zuma. “The constitution says that if there is more than one person contesting for presidency, voting shall take place secretly, but when it is time to remove the president we must remove the president by a show of hands... We think that is inconsistent with our constitution. People must be free to express themselves,” Malema said. UDM leader Bantu Holomisa said the party had already filed papers at the Constitutional Court with respect to the secret ballot case. “We are waiting for the Chief Justice to give us direction. At this stage I am not interested to discuss the merits and demerits of the case since the matter is now in front of the judges. One thing I can say is that I am optimistic that we are putting a strong case,” he said. He condemned the intimidation tactics allegedly meted out by senior ANC members against their MPs perceived to be anti-Zuma, saying it was contrary to the constitution. Malema said the UDM legal efforts for secret ballots would make it easier to remove Zuma from power. DA MP Phumzile van Damme, who was at the briefing, said negotiations among different political parties about casting the motion of no confidence in the president were ongoing. “Some ANC leaders and MPs approached our leader, Mmusi Maimane, indicating that they would be willing to put a motion of no confidence,” she said. Cope leader Mosiuoa Lekota told the media the narrative that the ANC or any political party could dismiss its member for voting in keeping with their conscience, was wrong and unfounded. “When I was still in the ANC, we voted on a number of issues on which people could not be unanimous. Under President Nelson Mandela during the abortion question there were members of the party who for religious reasons and others could not do so, and we recognised the fact that we can’t compel them to vote contrary to their conscience.” He said under President Thabo Mbeki some ANC parliamentarians expressed their voices against the issue of lesbian and gay marriage. “I know we differed with those who could not have voted so, but we respected their rights because we knew that if we have tried to dismiss them and they went to court, the court was going to reinstate them.” Lekota said nobody could compel a parliamentarian to break his or her oath of office. “Members of the ANC must not be intimidated by (their chief whip) Jackson Mthembu because the consequences of their action would stay with them forever,” he said.