President Jacob Zuma has called on local government officials to prevent illegal land invasions. Speaking at the third Presidential Local Government Summit in Midrand yesterday, he said: “All spheres must prevent illegal land invasion and growth of informal settlements.” One municipality that has already started doing this is Ekurhuleni. In his State of the City address last week, mayor Mzwandile Masina said it had established a Land Invasion Unit. The unit will solely be in charge of ensuring land is not invaded and turned into informal settlements. Masina also said the city would expropriate, on behalf of residents, private land that has not been developed since 1994 and has since been occupied by people to build informal settlements. “Once the land has been transferred to residents, the areas will be recognised as formal townships.” The EFF, which has been advocating for land invasion without compensation, said that Zuma was contradicting himself. “It’s a contradiction of what he’s been saying all along that land must be expropriated without compensation. That just exposes his hypocrisy,” said spokesperson Mbuyiseni Ndlozi. Ndlozi added that once the ANC is removed, it will leave space for a government that is consistent in its application of its policies. Zuma also used the summit to clarify what the government meant by radical socio-economic transformation. He said it was not “anything beyond what is before us”. “I want you to listen very carefully… by radical socio- economic transformation we mean the fundamental change in the structure, systems, institutions and patterns of ownership, management and control of the economy in favour of all South Africans, especially the poor – the majority of whom are African and female.” He said detractors should stop asking what the government means by radical socio-economic transformation. “We cannot say it is all fine when there is extreme poverty and extreme richness. The gap must be closed. The wealth of this country must look after the citizens of this country.” Zuma said there needed to be socio-economic transformation in local government. “It is not just for the sake of it, but it is to satisfy the citizens of this country, particularly that they have the political power to choose the government and personalities they want, but also the economic power to live comfortably.”