Cape Town – Hundreds of stranded bus commuters filled lines at local taxi ranks following the national bus strike. Queues at the Site C taxi rank in Khayelitsha, Cape Town, seemed endless on Wednesday morning with people flocking from various bus stops to the rank in hopes of getting transport to work. There were no Golden Arrow or MyCiTi bus services operational as of Wednesday due to the national bus strike. The Nyanga taxi rank, opposite the Nyanga bus terminus, was not as full when the Cape Argus visited the area. A little scuffle between commuters at the Mitchell's Plain rank was reported, but was quickly dealt with. It was at the Site C rank that people claimed they had been queueing since early in the morning. Lines for areas such as Bellville, Claremont and Wynberg barely moved.    Andile Khashe chairperson of the Khayelitsha Site C taxi rank said there were about 5000 taxis at the rank. "Today is very crowded. People from the buses have come to make use of taxis due to the strike. "We do however have sufficient taxis to transport the commuters but the problem is not with transporting the people it is the traffic on the roads," he said. There were more people using their cars to get to work, causing more congestion, he said. As a result of the congestion, taxi drivers were not expected to make any significant increase in profit, he said. At the Khayelitsha rank loyal taxi commuter had membership cards which they purchase for R20. "They produce these cards on days like this. They do not have to stand in queues all day – if they show the card they get preferential treatment meaning they gain first entry in taxis and strikes do not affect them," said Khashe. Commuters without these cards had no option but to wait in line. Sylvia Dumo, a Khayelitsha commuter who travels to Sea Point, said she was at the rank for an hour without boarding a taxi. Normally Dumo arrives at the rank at 6.30am and gets to work an hour later. "I reported to my boss about the strike so they know I will be arriving late," she said.    Thando Sihlava, a Century City commuter, said the strike caused him serious delays. "I am a regular taxi commuter, this strike will make me late for work. When there are such situations taxis are scarce and this causes panic," said Sihlava. While standing in the queues, people took photos as proof of the delays for their employers. Another scuffle was reported in the queue for Maitland.    Noluthando Mvabaza said: "They (bus commuters) are filling our lines. What makes things worse is that taxi marshals are now prioritising them more than us regulars. They just want the money." The bus strike follows a dead-lock in wage negotiations with the South African Road Passengers Bargaining Council (SARPBAC), an umbrella body for the unions. More than 200 000 Golden Arrow bus commuters and nearly 71 000 MyCiTi commuters are affected by the strike.  zodidi.dano@inl.co.za 