Zuma’s self-interested decision to fire capable and trusted Treasury leadership and replace them with servants of corruption has sparked the country into action. Already a petition on noconfidence.co.za has received close to 300 000 signatures, and counting, all calling for Zuma to be removed; a wave of protests swept across the country’s major capitals of Cape Town and Tshwane; both the Nelson Mandela and Ahmed Kathrada foundations have spoken out strongly against the “the forces of evil, and the rogues, and the thieves who want to steal our country from us”. Ultimately, it is the National Assembly that has the duty and constitutional authority to remove the president when he does not act in the interests of the country, the people and the economy. The National Assembly hired Zuma, it’s now time that it fired him. The Democratic Alliance (DA) therefore reiterates its call for the Speaker of the National Assembly to reconvene the National Assembly for a special sitting to debate and vote on a motion of no confidence in Zuma. This is not a DA motion of no confidence; it is the people’s motion of no confidence. It is in the interests of the country and its future that all political parties support the removal of Zuma. In the words of former minister Barbara Hogan and partner to the late Uncle Kathy: “Party loyalty is important, but when we are in as grave a situation as we are in today, the constitution that we love and fought for, must take prece-
dence over any lingering notion that party loyalty is above 
anything.” Furthermore, we call upon South Africans to put pressure on their MPs, especially those in the ANC, to support this move to take back the country from Zuma and the self-
serving and criminal elements he has chosen to surround himself with. We therefore invite all South Africans to join us on Friday, April 7 2017, as we take this message to the ANC’s doorstep, in order to remind Cyril Ramaphosa, Jackson Mthembu, Derek Hanekom, and others, of their primary duty to the people of South Africa and the constitution. One man cannot hold 56 million South Africans hostage. Maimane is leader of the DA