During his second year he had been financially excluded from the university but because of his good marks, he was allowed to complete his undergraduate degree. Harris who lives in Strand and comes from a single parent household is the first in his family to attend university. He graduated last week having been the top student in his class for each of his four years at the university. He achieved 24 distinctions during his time at UWC. Harris said even though he only had the support of his mother, Charlotte Sinclair, and the family was struggling financially, he was determined not to let these difficulties stand in his way of achieving his goals and hoped through his efforts to inspire others. “I want to become a doctor, because I feel that helping people was my calling. The day I realised that I wanted to be a doctor was when I was admitted at Somerset Hospital as a child for having an asthma attack. I realised then I had a calling to help people but mostly young children who are the future of this country,” said Harris. He says he wants to be the kind of doctor who also helps people on a personal level and he mostly enjoys working with children and sees a bright future in every child he works with. Sinclair said she is extremely proud of her son. “I am so happy to see what he has achieved. It has always been the two of us, and now that he has grown up it is wonderful to see what kind of person he has become,” said Sinclair. Along with his academic achievements, Harris has also been recognised by fellow students and is the current president of the UWC Pharmacy Association (UWCAPS). Harris believes in giving back and inspiring others, as he has tutored for a number of classes at UWC, and organised several food, clothing and HIV awareness drives. It was not easy for Keaton to follow his dream as he was rejected more than 10 times to study medicine. But he never gave up. “I want to let all students know that it is possible to achieve your dreams - it doesn’t matter how hard it gets. No matter your financial situation, always give your best to achieve your dreams.” he said He is currently doing his internship at Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital, and he says he is not done with studying yet as he has learned a lot during his pharmacy studies. His dream is to become a cardiothoracic surgeon, and he has applied to study medicine (MBChB) in 2018.