People pay therapists a fortune for this kind of work. In her latest exhibition, Groeipyne/Growing Pains, at Worldart gallery, she can generate some income from this difficult process. She has packaged her childhood regression into five characters balanced on round plinths meant to resemble birthday cakes. “It is about a celebration, an awakening of the past. I am playing and exposing myself and discovering myself through playing with these dolls,” says the Swellendam-based artist. The figures are a uniform group of girls who function as the elaborate “cake decoration”.  Their eyes are closed as if locked in a dream. “They are inside themselves, looking inwards,” Nel explains. The display is rewarding in this Cape Town gallery setting, where facing the window, the group of sculptures appear like oversized toys on display, framed by the Groeipyne/Growing Pains sign in lights. “I wanted it to appear like a circus show that you are attending.” The show in question is Nel’s inner struggle, though it doesn’t appear messy and unresolved as you might expect. She has packaged it in such a way for it to be easily consumed. In this way it has purpose, aesthetically and psychically. She relies on familiar references to communicate her insights and conflicts. A specially-designed pink bench placed in front of her “show”, encourages viewers to take a seat and spend some time looking at her array of characters. In truth you need time to decode their outfits, as it is through their clothing and accessories that she relays this confrontation with the child self. The outfits are mostly familiar; Double by/Dubbeldoor is clearly Red Riding Hood, though this fairytale character has been fused with her nemesis, the wolf. “We all have this dark side. We are taught to become afraid of it and to suppress it, but it is natural. If we keep it buried for too long, when it comes out it can appear like a monster,” says Nel. Rabbit hole/Haas Gat refers to Alice in Wonderland. This character wears a mask as does the Row/Row one, a pair of goggles to link up with the boat she is trapped in, referring to the song with the line: “Row, row, row your boat, gently down the stream”.  Their headgear acts as a filter through which they view the world.Groeipyne/Growing Pains will show at Worldart gallery, Cape Town until April 27. Mary Corrigall is an art consultant www.corrigall.org