Rustenburg businessman Thapelo Tshephe, one of many complainants against alleged fraudster Brendon Naidoo, is convinced justice will be served. Naidoo, the boyfriend of popular house music deejay Ntombezinhle Jiyane (aka DJ Zinhle), was granted R50 000 bail yesterday morning in the Alexandra Magistrate’s Court. Speaking to The Star, Tshephe said R50 000 was a small amount “but I can’t say that the guy should not get bail”. Tshephe said, however, the case was definitely not over. “Let the law take its course,” he said. “Him getting bail is not the end of the case. We have a solid case.” According to the businessman, the money that Naidoo allegedly defrauded from him was more than the reported R3 million. He said he wanted bank statements from Naidoo as proof but so far he has not been successful in getting them. “I used to like the guy until he became arrogant,” said Tshephe. According to Tshephe, trusting Naidoo with his money was not an issue at first, after meeting him at a trading school. “(The school) said he is a good guy,” said Tshephe. Naidoo faces multiple cases of fraud opened against him by people who claimed to have been conned out of millions in a foreign-exchange trading scheme, which was confirmed by State prosecutor Jimmy Shongwe during court proceedings yesterday. In less than 30 minutes, magistrate Renier Boshoff listened to bail application arguments made by both the State and defence lawyers. Shongwe requested that the accused be released on R100 000 bail. However, defence advocate Jay Naidoo requested half of that. “It would be affordable and a substantial amount of money for the accused,” Naidoo told the court. Boshoff granted the accused bail of R50 000 and in addition he has to report to the Sandton police station twice a week. Naidoo was arrested earlier this month and remained in custody at the Johannesburg Central Prison until his bail was granted yesterday. According to his other lawyer, Himendra Naidoo, the accused’s family was “relieved” that the application was successful. Among those present were members of his family. However, his girfriend DJ Zinhle did not make an appearance during the court proceedings. The accused is expected to return to court on May 5. @Zwane_2li2ls