The Save South Africa movement will hold a protest rally in Port Elizabeth on Thursday, calling for the removal of President Jacob Zuma. The rally, which has been described by organisers as a family event, will take place on Freedom Day and will be preceded by a short march at 9am from Njoli Square to the Dan Qeqe Stadium situated in Zwide township. The event is expected to kick off at 11am and will continue for about two hours. Food stalls will be set up, however no alcohol will be allowed at the event.  https://t.co/ILVxPJRedaShare this post, get involved in the campaign to Save South Africa and donate! #savesa #endstatecapture https://t.co/iQrY8PMUhw  — Save South Africa (@_SaveSA) April 25, 2017  Save South Africa have also arranged transport for residents in need – buses with #SaveSA branding will be stationed at various points in the townships and northern areas, and commuters will be transported free of charge. Taxis with #SaveSA branding will transport residents who live in the eastern and southern parts of the city and commuters will be charged a R25 fee. The rally will take place within a groundswell of public protests against Zuma, involving growing numbers of civil society organisations and opposition political parties calling for Zuma’s head. Save South Africa’s Sipho Pityana is expected to speak, along with former Constitutional Court judge Zak Yacoob and Anglican Bishop Nceba Nopece. At a media briefing on Tuesday, Save South Africa’s PE leader, Khusta Jack, said that Freedom Day was a day to unite the nation. While Jack would not predict numbers, he did call upon political parties to emphasise unity across party political affiliation. “We want a fit and proper leader, it’s not our call to say give us this particular person. We want to be governed properly.” Jack said leaders who understood the psychology of the masses would know that politicians could never detach themselves from the people. “Zuma has long detached himself from the masses,” Jack said. “When you see Zuma on television these days he goes on without any substance. He has lost it, he has tried the race card and he failed, now he is attempting to terrorise people by reminding them about the killing fields of Natal, his intention is to instil fear and terror in the minds of the people. That’s his last resort, what is next?” said Jack. He called on people to reject Zuma’s utterances of “recklessness and irresponsibility”. “It is clear to us that the president is planning a nasty campaign against South Africans. Rest assured he is a lame duck and he is finished as we speak,” he said. Pastor Roderick Vencecie, representing church leaders in the northern areas of PE, called on people irrespective of religion or race to join forces on Freedom Day. African News Agency