The SA Communist Party is considering beefing up security around its national and provincial leaders in the wake of an alleged attempted assassination of one of its officials, Solly Mapaila. This is the second incident in which the security of the party’s leaders has come under scrutiny. Early this year, SACP general secretary Blade Nzimande revealed that there were efforts to purge the party’s leaders as they were constantly spied on and their phones were tapped. At the time, he was speaking a few months after SACP members were killed in Inchanga, Durban. Yesterday, SACP spokesperson Alex Mashilo said they were looking at the security detail around their leaders. “At the meeting where we met yesterday, among other things, we discussed security. We agreed that further assessment must be conducted to beef up our security at a leadership level. Secondly, all SACP events we will be holding, involving the leadership, we will beef up security at all those events,” said Mashilo, replying to questions on whether security around Mapaila would be increased. A video showing a man brandishing a gun while Mapaila was on stage at the 24th anniversary of the assassination of Chris Hani went viral this week. It is alleged the man was unable to shoot at the SACP leader after he noticed that he was being watched. The SACP said Mapaila had an umbrella because of a heavy rainstorm and that this distracted the alleged gunman. Mapaila and the party’s first deputy general secretary Jeremy Cronin have come under fire for using public platforms to explain the SACP’s call for Zuma to step down. The news of the alleged assassination comes after reports surfaced that Human Settlements Minister Lindiwe Sisulu was receiving death threats for speaking out against Zuma. A resolute Mapaila yesterday said he remained unshaken by attempts on his life. “I’m a soldier. For many years I have been pursued. I live in the shadow of death every day. The real issue for me is the brazen manner in which those who protect corruption sought to end my life.” He added that he was glad to be alive. ANC spokesperson Khusela Sangoni said the ruling party condemned criminal acts in the strongest way possible, saying the party would wait for more information on what transpired.