Manyonga grabbed the headlines at the Rio Olympic Games when he leapt his way to silver, signalling his triumph over the addiction that temporarily derailed his promising career. Athletics SA (ASA) and Newton Agency, which represents Manyonga, released a statement yesterday confirming the addiction was “a daily challenge” for the athlete. “Luvo was part of a rehabilitation programme at a highly-regarded treatment facility in the lead up to the Rio Olympic Games,” it read. “(He) has now enrolled in the facility's after-care programme to continue with his rehabilitation and achieve his dream of becoming one of the world’s greatest ever long-jumpers in the history of the sport.” The statement added that  Manyonga remained committed to the World Anti-Doping Agency and South African Institute for Drug-Free Sport testing requirements and submits to regular monitoring at the facility. “The continuation of his treatment in the facility simply provides the best structure to achieve his personal and performance goals as it allows him to focus fully on the demands of training and competing while under the care and support of a professional support team,” ASA and Newton Agency said. Manyonga last month smashed the South African long-jump record when he landed a mammoth 8.62m leap at the Athletics Gauteng North Championships in Pretoria, improving on Khotso Mokoena’s previous national mark by just 12cm. The talented jumper’s battle with drug addiction has been well documented with the 2010 World Junior champion missing the London 2012 Games after testing positive for the recreational drug “tik”, and serving an 18-month ban. His addiction cost him four years of his career and he vowed to stay committed to keeping the drug demon at bay. “Unfortunately, I have been battling substance abuse since I was a teenager and it has been a difficult journey,” Manyonga said. “I wanted to release this statement to show others that there is no shame in your past, and to empower others to shake off the stigma associated with addiction.” Manyonga said the decision to openly talk about his rehabilitation was to “hopefully allow others to admit to the daily challenges”. “I am committed to staying drug free and I want to achieve great things in my career and life,” Manyonga said. “To achieve my goals and dreams I understand that I will need all the support I can get. “I want to thank my family, ASA and my support team at Newton Sports Agency for all their help and support they have given me thus far. I am excited about my future.”