Former Bafana Bafana and Jomo Cosmos football player Lebohang Morula and three of his friends were each awarded R90 000 in damages after they were earlier arrested for possession of stolen vehicle parts and housebreaking equipment. Nothing ever came of the charges, but Morula said his few hours in a police cell and subsequent assault by the police had scarred him for life. His arrest in 2011 made headlines and Morula, now a businessman, said his name had been dragged through the mud. “As I was a professional football player, I was famous and a celebrity in the football industry. I would have loved to be able to return to the sports industry, but as a direct result of the conduct of the police, I will not be able to as my name was dragged through the mud. “I can only believe that my peers and my fans and any professional person will see me in an entirely different light as a result of what had happened, as I am now seen as a criminal,” Morula said in a statement. He and his friends, Aaron Masanabo, Gilbert Mokwena and Mokgokoloshi Leshaba, each instituted a damages claim of about R250 000 against the police. The court ordered that the police were liable for their damages. Morula and his friends’ ordeal started near midnight on March 30, 2011, when they were travelling along Bremer Street in Hercules, west of Pretoria. Morula said they were on their way home when a police officer in a marked vehicle ordered them to pull off the road. As he stopped, two officers approached the car and told him and his friends to lie on the ground, face down. Morula said he was terrified as he did not know what was happening. His hands were tied behind his back and the police took pictures of him. “I was punched and kicked while a plastic bag or a sheet of some sorts was pulled over my head. I was nearly suffocating to the point that I could not breath. They also sprayed pepper spray at me… I feared for my life and at one point thought it is perhaps criminals attempting to rob us. I thought the police were supposed to protect the community.”