AFTER eight months of pain and agony, Phoenix, a 2-year old dog caught in gang crossfire last April in Blue Downs, has finally recovered and is looking for a place to call home. The pit bull cross suffered a bullet wound to the head in what is believed to have been a fight between his owner and a third party. Phoenix received top-class treatment at the Cape of Good Hope (CoGH) SPCA.Communications, education and resource development manager at the CoGH SPCA, Belinda Abraham, said that Phoenix survived and quickly found a way into the hearts of the kennel staff. The entry wound was only a small hole on the side of his skull. It was too risky to remove the bullet which is still lodged in his brain behind his eye. She added that Phoenix s nature was trusting and gentle despite the abuse he suffered at the hands of human carelessness. This truly courageous dog shows us yet again the incredible resilience of an animal s spirit. In his time spent with the kennel staff Phoenix has wiggled his way into our hearts with his loving eyes and soft disposition, she said.Due to the injury, Phoenix now has a small head tilt and usually rests his head against the wall to prevent himself from falling over. He has a lot more flexibility and his head tilt is not as severe as before. He has adapted well and aside from his unique way of looking at the world, has not suffered any long-term ill-effects. According to Abrahams, Phoenix needs a family that knows dogs and understands the importance of basic training, socialisation and daily exercise to ensure a happy and healthy dog. Phoenix is a good-natured dog who interacts well with others dogs, however, we would require a meet-and-greet should potential adopters have a dog already, she said. Abrahams said that animals were regularly the victims of stray bullets and sometimes even intentional shootings and stabbings. Two other dogs in the care of the CoGH SPCA were victims of shooting and violent stabbing with one dog having to have an amputation. Last year ended with a dog that had been shot twice and stabbed in the neck, said Abrahams.