AS VILAKAZI Street comes to terms with Sunday s murder of a manager at Sakhumzi Restaurant, Johannesburg mayor Herman Mashaba has vowed to improve security in the area.Mashaba met restaurant owner Sakhumzi Maqubela and other local business owners on the issues of safety on this world-famous Soweto street.The mayor was joined at the meeting by MMC for Economic Develompent Sharon Peetz and MMC for Community Developement, Nonhlanhla Sifumba. The Sakhumzi tragedy is a country-wide problem. We must help these businesses succeed. We must make sure residents and tourists feel safe. We won t allow criminals to intimidate our businesses. People must come and support Sakhumzi without fear, Mashaba said.He explained that part of the plan to beef up security included CCTV equipment and increased police visibility. Several business owners from the area made it clear to the media that they would not be intimidated by criminals and said they were glad Mashaba had visited the scene and seen the situation for himself.Mashaba also promised better streetlights for Vilakazi Street. From a tourism perspective our country is faced with major challenges, high unemployment and perceptions that we are a violent country. We take this matter very seriously and we want these criminals to be put behind bars as a matter of urgency, he saidDuring the early hours of Sunday morning, two gunmen entered the restaurant after it had closed for the evening, while staff were cashing up.Gauteng Police spokesperson Kay Makhubele said the 60-year-old manager approached the men to tell them the restaurant was closed. They opened fire and shot him several times when he refused to let them in. He died on the scene and the men fled. &quot;A manhunt has been launched and we are looking for two males. We call on anyone with information to come forward and approach their nearest police station, Makhubele said.Sunday s murder and attempted robbery was not the first time the restaurant had been hit by robbers. Late last year several men managed to rob the restaurant and escaped with a substantial amount of money.Sakhumzi is not the only restaurant that has been hit over the past months with several other businesses being targeted since October.