THE Cape Town Minstrel Carnival Association (CTMCA) is claiming sabotage after excited crowds gathered at Athlone Stadium to see the klopse perform and waited for about six hours to see the show after security issues delayed the event significantly. CTMCA chief executive Kevin Momberg believes parties were attempting to undermine the association by offering security personnel money to work elsewhere. Some of these people will go to great lengths to make us look incompetent, he said.CTMCA hosted its own parade at Athlone Stadium on Monday after withdrawing from the Tweede Nuwe Jaar parade in the CBD when the city did not award the long-time organisers a permit for this year s march. The city last month granted hosting rights for the annual carnival to the Kaapse Klopse Karnivaal Association (KKKA) a tender worth R1.8 million. Momberg admitted the event started hours late, due to security issues. Once the security issues had been remedied, the gates were opened and thousands flooded the stadium to see the 36 troupes perform, he said. He also said the Tweede Nuwe Jaar parade which this year did not carry on late into the night, was not a success. The association would also be approaching the courts as the KKKA did not get a risk grading certificate from the South African Police Service but despite this, was still issued with a permit for the march, Momberg added. The city is playing power games. We have been organising these events for years, he said. CTMCA chairperson Richard Stemmet said the troupes and association paid for the entire event themselves. He also confirmed that security services did not arrive on time, but said the event started about 3pm and everything else went according to plan. We have been doing this (Tweede Nuwe Jaar parade) for 19 years. And the city has given this event to a small minstrel group. The city has abused its power, he said. Mayoral committee member for tourism, events and economic development Eddie Andrews said the scheduled time for the opening of the gates was 11am and at the time the organisers had only 20 security staff on site instead of the 150 required. The event organiser was given until 2.30pm to make sure the required number of security personnel were on site. At 2.30pm there were only 42 security staff but the public were allowed access to the venue for water and ablutions and to get out of the sun. The event organiser was then given until 5pm. At 5.15pm, there were 65 security personnel on site and the South African Police Service commander allowed the troupes to continue with the competition on condition that the the beer garden would not be opened due to insufficient security personnel on site, he said. The event was stopped at 11.50pm after unauthorised and uncontrolled fireworks were discharged in the troupe bus parking area. Andrews said other associations have worked together with the city to deliver their events successfully. The CTMCA chooses to side-line itself and refuses to compromise or work with the city. The minstrel events go beyond associations. It s about thousands of family members and whole communities who come out in support of their troupes. 