Johannesburg African National Congress supporters and members at the ANC's 105th anniversary bash at the Orlando Stadium in Soweto, Johannesburg, on Sunday said they would stick with the governing party. Thousands of people made their way to the stadium despite the inclement weather. &quot;I am thankful to God that my party is turning 105 today. I am a member in good standing and this is our party and no other,&quot; said Bishop Masemola from Mpumalanga. He arrived in Johannesburg with a group of his branch members early on Sunday. A group of high school pupils from the Vaal said they had been hearing about the ANC since they were little. They were aged between 15 and 16 and walked holding hands into the stadium. &quot;I have been learning about the ANC since preschool. Besides what we learn at school, my parents told me about its history... Mandela and how he was mistreated and arrested. I love the ANC,&quot; said 16-year-old Palesa Makau. &quot;I have been learning about the ANC since preschool. Besides what we learn at school, my parents told me about its history... Mandela and how he was mistreated and arrested. I love the ANC,&quot; said 16-year-old Palesa Makau. Her friend Tiisetso Motsoeneng said she did not like the way way most people were struggling and without jobs. &quot;I wish the ANC can just dedicate their work on creating jobs. People in the township... and funding even at high schools, we need money to fix schools,&quot; she said. Most of the 40 000 seats had already been filled by 11am. Rows of cars and buses had filled open spaces around the stadium by 9am. Inside the stadium, supporters were entertained by DJs and performers such as Deborah Fraser. President Jacob Zuma was expected to deliver the main address. The choice of Gauteng as the hosting province for the celebrations is seen by many as an effort by the ANC national executive committee to unify the deeply divided party, which lost control of the Johannesburg and Tshwane metros, as well as Nelson Mandela Bay (Port Elizabeth) in the Eastern Cape, in the August 3 municipal elections. The ANC started celebrating its January 8 birthday in exile in 1972, under the leadership of its former president Oliver Tambo. African News Agency