Cape Town - The Kalk Bay mosque in the Western Cape has been promised the sponsorship of a state-of-the-art security surveillance system after it was desecrated last week.Last weekend, a pig s snout and blood were placed outside the door of the Simon s Town mosque and, a few days later, the place of worship for Muslim followers in Kalk Bay was splattered with blood and holy scriptures vandalised.Sharief Ariefdien, the chairperson of the mosque, said the incident had led to a sponsor offering to install a new security system. The mosque, Ariefdien explained, was never locked and is open to worshippers. They had been considering keeping the building locked in light of last week s incident, but improved surveillance will allow people entrance if and when they pitch up.The mosque will receive sophisticated surveillance cameras outside the premises, which will monitor the entrance and the windows.There will also be motion-detector cameras installed inside and a security system that allows four people to open it up for visitors using their cellphones. Ariefdien said the cellphone numbers would be outside the mosque and if people want to enter, they need only dial the numbers and the recipient would be able to open up. The interesting aspect, he said, was that those responsible for opening up would be able to monitor visitors entering the mosque via footage streamed to their phones. We are also looking at security (personnel) to patrol, he added.Ariefdien said even though they were planning to install the new security system, this was not to deter people and that they should not be afraid to come to the mosque . This incident has brought the community closer, he added. Ariefdien also revealed that talks were ongoing about organising an interfaith gathering in the near future, as Kalk Bay was a very diverse community.As a result of the incident in Kalk Bay, Ariefdien said they have been in contact with Simon s Town mosque. We are building a relationship with them, he said.Imam Abdul Gakiem Raban of the Simon s Town mosque said they don t have any major security at the establishment except for a secure lock.But he said a neighbour also keeps a close eye on the building.However, Raban said they were planning to install cameras very soon, and he was informed by the police that a suspect in connection with last weekend s act had been picked up for questioning, but was later released. He said the suspect was seen on street surveillance cameras, but there was no clear evidence that he was responsible for the incident. Police spokesperson Captain FC van Wyk said there were no new developments and investigations are still ongoing.Meanwhile, Muslim Judicial Council deputy president Moulana Abdul Khaliq Allie said there was no fear of further incidents in the Muslim community, but rather they were pained and grieved by the incident.He insisted that what happened at the two mosques won t drive people away .Religious leaders from other faiths have also shown their support for the muslim community. Reverend Michael Weeder, dean of St George s Cathedral, said these acts against Muslims were regarded as an attack on all places of worship and all people are affected . Anybody that attacks Islam in the way it has by desecrating a place of worship is an attack on all faiths, Weeder added. Besides inculcating a deeper sense of vigilance, the most powerful defence is the way we talk about religions, he said, adding that disturbing incidents that occur at the mosques were not typical of our society . Affected communities must know other people care, not just Muslims, but non-Muslims. These incidents compel us to become more introspective that this kind of violence can come from our city. We need to keep exposing these things. Eric Beswick, the executive director of Temple Israel Wynberg Synagogue, said the Jewish community were aware of security concerns. We are upset that people feel it is okay to attack a religious organisation. We would never condone this towards any kind of religion. We condemn the attacks on these mosques, Beswick said.He said at the temple, they have cameras and electric fencing as well as guards on duty. Visitors who enter are required to fill in a visitors form and they need to provide identification.Weekend Argus