AS THE country fears renewed violent strikes by students in reaction to university decisions to increase fees, the ANC Youth League (ANCYL) has been hard at work raising funds to assist.The eThekwini region s ANCYL regional secretary, Thinta Cibane, said the league had raised R1 million from a business breakfast held in Durban last month to prevent the violent strikes that brought universities to a standstill last year.Durban University of Technology students said they received SMSes during the holidays that tuition and residence fees would each be raised by eight percent. The R1m is already there. We fund-raised it during a business breakfast held at uShaka Marine World on December&nbsp;21. During the breakfast, we raised R650 000 in cash to assist with registration, said Cibane.More businesses, especially those listed on the JSE, are expected to be engaged to support poor students. Cibane said they have been approached to assist with more registration fees and later with bursaries and scholarships.He said if targeted businesses fail to comply, we will mobilise young people to stop the production . We do believe that #FeesMustFall is being used by opposition parties, in particular the EFF, to try to gain ground. The free education is a genuine call, but these parties want to abuse it to try and score cheap political points, he said. Cibane said that to prevent the destruction of university properties, the league was prepared to lead the strikes and free education campaigns because it was opposed to a blanket free education call, which would lead to children from rich families also benefiting. It does not make sense that Johann Rupert s child would benefit from free education for all. Rupert does have money. Therefore, we don t agree with the direction of #FeesMustFall.&quot;Cibane said many businesses in the city pay for social responsibility, but the league could not establish how that money was spent. We are willing to be confrontational if things are not being done, even if it means factories must be closed down to get the attention of the business owners.&quot;We will march along with the students because free education is a demand, said Cibane.EFF Student Command chairperson at DUT, Gazuzu Nduli, said strikes would continue when the institution opens for the new academic year. We have no intention to destroy property as our only intention is to shut down operations, but anything can happen when police and security guards provoke us. 