UNDER-FIRE Sans Souci Girls High principal Charmaine Murray has retired as a result of protests at the school last year, over what pupils called institutionalised racism perpetuated by the institution s code of conduct. In September, unrest erupted after a number of African pupils claimed Sans Souci s rules did not accommodate their natural hair, and they were not allowed to speak their home language if it wasn t English. Parents and teachers also spoke out and called for the dismissal of Murray. Yesterday, the Western Cape Education Department s head of education, Brian Schreuder, said it had completed investigations into the allegations. It found that several discriminating practices gave rise to understandable unhappiness among pupils and steps had been taken to remedy these practices. Charmaine Murray, retired at the end of December 2016 after 36 years of distinguished and loyal service with the WCED, the last 17 years as principal of Sans Souci. She has indicated that her decision, while of retirement age, is as a consequence of the trauma of the unfolding events and believes this to be in her and the school s best interests, Schreuder said. He said further engagement will begin with Sans Souci, including reviewing the school s code of conduct, its hair policy, actions and decisions taken about inclusivity of all cultures and faiths, assisting the governing body through training and support to fulfil its functions, and having disciplinary engagements with individuals, where applicable. Any disciplinary engagement is a confidential matter between the HoD (head of department) as employer and employee and will be treated in such a manner. While a number of unacceptable practices were identified which require revision and correction, the evidence is unlikely to lead to dismissal in any one instance, Schreuder said.Moyra Makina, of The Truth We Will Proclaim movement of past and present pupils, and their parents, said it appeared that Murray had been protected by the WCED. We had suspected that this would be the case as opposed to the department taking action against her. Be it as it may, I hope that the investigating team applied themselves with integrity and justice in their findings, she said. I hope that she (Murray) will take time to reflect on her conduct. As someone who chose a career in education, she should have been instilling confidence and dignity in the girls and not breaking them down. What started out as a so-called hair issue was so much bigger than that it was about basic human rights and dignity, Makina said.