TWO Melomed 24 paramedics have become the latest targets of crime on EMS personnel after their vehicle was attacked and windows broken in an attempted robbery in Silvertown Athlone. The crew had dropped off one of their colleagues and were driving towards Vangate Mall when they came across four men in Petunia Street on Friday night. Melomed 24 spokesperson Salama Joseph said yesterday the driver had focused on the suspect who attempted to open the door when the vehicle s window was shattered with an unknown object. He (the driver) immediately sped off. No one was injured, but they were traumatised. Nothing was taken from them. It s not the first time such an incident has occurred. We have been stoned before. In a similar incident, our crew was attacked by a group of about 12 guys on Prince George Drive. The attacks are not only happening to the provincial paramedics. We have become targets, for what reason I don t know. The driver is a father of two and anything could have happened to him and the other crew member, she said. Clearly, nothing has been done to address the safety of the paramedics. We need reinforcements to address this issue. Last week we were part of the march against the granting of bail to the suspects who allegedly robbed paramedics in Khayelitsha. We (paramedics) are out there to saves lives, not for our lives to be taken away, she said. They did not know what was used to break the window as they did not find any object, Joseph said.The company had offered the paramedics counselling. The attacks on paramedics were hampering their efforts in providing essential services to patients.Joseph said in some areas marked as danger zones, paramedics had to be escorted by police to enter, but these efforts sometimes delayed responding times. Our main concern is the safety of our paramedics. The community needs to play their part in assisting us and the police, she said. The provincial health department had reported that more than 70 attacks had taken place on paramedics late last year. Meanwhile, the three suspects arrested in connection with the robbery of a provincial EMS crew in Khayelitsha have been remanded in custody until March. They appeared at the Khayelitsha Magistrate s Court on Friday. Police say the crew was attending to a patient in Mandela Park on December 27 when they were held at gunpoint and robbed of cellphones. The toy gun used in the robbery was confiscated. Police had not responded about the latest incident before deadline. [email&#160;protected]