A DOUBLE tragedy has befallen a Sweet Home Farm family in Philippi after a mother was shot and killed in a suspected robbery which has left her 6-month-old baby fighting for her life in hospital.Ward councillor Sithembiso Mzobe said armed men stormed the family home of a money lender and demanded cash and fired shots when she refused. It seems as if they came with one intention, to rob. Although they left with nothing it was unfortunate for the family to lose the mother. Not to mention the little baby who was shot, he said.A neighbour, who did not want to be identified, said she heard gun shots while she was sleeping and thought someone was using a hammer to knock in nails as is common in shacks. I heard a woman screaming. When I went out to look what was happening I saw the woman who was screaming coming out running. The thugs then followed. When I got into my neighbour s house there was blood everywhere, she said. Police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana said cases of murder and attempted murder are under investigation. According to information the incident occurred this morning (yesterday) just before 9 at Sweet Home Farm. A 29-year-old woman was shot and fatally wounded and a 6-month-old baby was shot and wounded. The child was transported to hospital for medical treatment. She said suspects are yet to arrested. Meanwhile, the Mahono family in Crossroads is struggling financially to bury their son, Themba, 16, who was allegedly stabbed to death by a 13-year-old schoolmate. He was doing Grade 9 at Qingqa Mntwana Junior Secondary School, also in Crossroads.His aunt Nokwandisa Falakhe said they had just buried Themba s elder brother, who died on December 24, and they still owed the undertaker. She said the family survived on Themba s grant. We don t know how we are going to bury him. His unemployed mother was surviving on his social grant. We have lost the breadwinner. We even asked the municipality for the money so that we can buy a casket. We are hoping that our plight will be taken into consideration so we can bury our son, she said.Qingqa Mntwana Junior Secondary school deputy principal Simo Rayi said the school would contribute towards the burial. That family is very poor. Each teacher will donate R10 and each pupil will contribute R2. We are in the process of collecting stoves and food items to make sure he will be buried, he said. Thembela Lubambo said the community would contribute R5 per house. That poor family cannot afford another child. They recently had a struggle when they buried another son. Now this is happening. That is why the community has decided to contribute, she said. Falakhe said Mahono was stabbed in the head after an argument at games shop. Rwexana said a 13-year-old boy has appeared in the Athlone Magistrate s Court on a charge of murder. The suspect allegedly stabbed a 16-year-old male on January 14. The two had an argument while they were playing games in New Rest, Crossroads. It is alleged the suspect went to fetch a knife somewhere and stabbed the deceased, she said.Nyanga Community Policing Forum secretary Dumisani Qwabe urged the community to stand united against these social ills. The root cause of the problem is the lack of parenthood. How can a 13-year-old kill someone? The problem is that parents do not monitor the behaviour of their children, he said. Anyone with information about the Sweet Home Farm shooting can contact the investigating officer on 078 297 4573 or Nyanga SAPS on 021 380 3379. michael.nkalane@inl.co.za