FIVE water tanks with a capacity of 5 000 litres each will be bought and be placed at Blomnek within the next week in attempts to remedy a lack of water in the De Rust area, the Oudtshoorn Municipality has said. The municipality also said dam water will be pumped over weekends from local farmer Pieter Schoeman s pipeline to ensure sufficient water for the town during weekends. This is to avoid water shortages that were experienced over the previous weekend. Municipality spokesperson Ntobeko Mangqwengqwe said, however, that this water is not to be used for human consumption. Earlier this month the municipality announced that the water supply to De Rust had been discontinued after the recent fires that hit Oudtshoorn. Ash and burnt foliage in the water stream following last week s rains caused discolouring. The veld fire broke out in the area of Rust en Vrede waterfall, a tourist attraction about 25km outside Oudtshoorn and just less than 10km south-east of the Cango Caves. Mangqwengqwe said the municipality has taken note of the De Rust community s concerns regarding the water crisis including lack of communication with community members. The municipality has convened an urgent meeting which comprised senior municipal management including the municipal manager, municipal water department, disaster management services, the executive mayor Colan Sylvester and ward councillor Raymond Wildschut. We have re-looked at our distribution strategy, communication, short- to medium-term solutions to the current problem at De Rust and internal management. &quot;We're working on a short-term solution to ensure that the existing water distribution network is augmented. We shall most probably announce the new developments in the coming week s meeting in De Rust, Mangqwengqwe said. He said regular updates of the situation will be provided through means including social media and support staff. Public meetings will also be held to keep residents updated. The next meeting will be on February 1 at the Blomnek Community Hall. Last week organisations, companies, the government and individuals stepped in to help provide 60 000 litres of water from Cederberg Aqua, which is based in Citrusdal.