IT S about time that black people benefited from the economic resources of the country, including having access to their land.This was the emphatic ANC annual January 8 statement delivered by President Jacob Zuma during his party s 105th birthday celebration at a packed Orlando Stadium in Soweto yesterday.Zuma s statement offered a multi-pronged approach to deal with the ills of the country, which include overcoming the exclusion of black people from the country s economy, strategies to fight crime and corruption as well as returning land to black people. However, prior to making his bold statement, Zuma conceded that faction-fighting within his party was affecting their fortunes. Our own research and interactions with members of the ANC demonstrate clearly that the people abhor the apparent preoccupation with personal gain. People are clear: their main priorities are jobs, fighting crime and corruption. Our task, therefore, is to grow the economy, create jobs and rigorously fight crime and corruption, Zuma said.It became apparent that the outcome of the August 3 local government elections which saw the ANC losing key metros of the City of Joburg and Tshwane had forced the ANC to review their strategies and make land and jobs priority issues on their agenda.Zuma said more decisive steps must and would be taken to promote great economic inclusion and to advance ownership of the economy by black people.He also said the economy of the country was likely to grow by 2.9 percent this year. As the governing party, the ANC must use the levers of state power to transform the economy and improve the lives of our people. It has a duty to use government incentives, procurement, infrastructure investment and other measures to create new industries and expand existing industries. Doing so will increase will increase ownership of the economy by the black majority, Zuma said.He said an ANC government must use all measures available through initiatives like the black industrialists programme to develop township and rural economies to create jobs for our people . The manufacturing sector can be catalyst for transforming the economy and creating jobs. This is illustrated by the fact that this sector created more than 7 000 new jobs during the first six months of 2016.We call on South Africans, and in particular young, black and female entrepreneurs, to take advantage of all programmes and incentives to help turn South Africa into a bustling hub of industrialisation and manufacturing. We must boldly turn our country into a construction site, Zuma said.He said his government has budgeted R870 billion over the next three years for infrastructure development, which would help to create entrepreneurs, jobs, and support small businesses, as well as co-operatives in the construction sector, through the construction of hospitals, clinics, roads, colleges and schools.According to Zuma, his government was already spending R500bn a year on the procurement of goods and services and he appealed to small businesses to take up the opportunities. New regulations will come into place this year, making it compulsory for big constructors to subcontract 30 percent of business to small businesses as proposed in the last ANC national general council. This should be used to empower and develop black-owned small businesses. A strict enforcement of Black Economic Empowerment should be undertaken to contribute to the transformation of the economy, Zuma emphasised.He also called on the nation to provide support to state-owned enterprises like Eskom so that they could advance a developmental agenda. South Africa has experienced less load shedding since 2015 and we commend Eskom for the stabilisation of the electricity grid. Continued stabilisation, together with the addition of new capacity, will have positive effects on our economic growth and create new jobs, he said.Zuma also appealed to state-owned enterprises to actively encourage the emergence of black-owned small businesses in their procurement of goods and services as part of economic transformation.He emphasised that economic transformation was only possible if the private sector also played their part in the creation of jobs and the upliftment of the standard of living of everyone. South Africans must be united in working together to create a better life for all. Building South Africa will require compromise and sacrifice from every single one of us, Zuma said.