ANIMAL rights groups say 230&nbsp;donkeys and 25&nbsp;horses have been rescued from an auction which would have sold them to buyers for slaughter, with the intention to harvest their skins for export to Asia.The Animal Rescue Organisation (ARO), along with the Karoo Donkey Sanctuary in Prince Albert, became aware of a nightmare situation brewing at saleyards in the Northern Cape after reports of illegal donkey slaughter for the traditional medicine trade. ARO said members of the the Karoo Donkey Sanctuary had attended the auction to find out more. In the meantime, ARO in Cape Town sent out an appeal for help. Over R250&nbsp;000 was raised and used to buy and save some of the donkeys up for auction, said the organisation. It has offered to shelter some of the donkeys in Cape Town from the Karoo Donkey Sanctuary. The organisation said some of the animals could not be saved. The demand for donkey skins in China is due to production of E jiao, a substance which is created when donkey skins are soaked and boiled. &quot;Skins can fetch thousands of rands, and have become hot property, resulting in widespread theft, horrific backyard slaughter practices and general cruelty of an outrageous nature, ARO said. In October, a team from the Polokwane SPCA had to deal with 41&nbsp;dead and dying donkeys which were intercepted while being transported from Limpopo to an equine abattoir in Randfontein. Donkey hide contains gelatin, which is believed to be valuable for medicinal purposes, including containing anti-ageing properties, treating insomnia and improving blood circulation. Asian countries have been identified as big buyers of the skin.National SPCA spokesperson Christine Kuch said local farmers had resorted to taking animals into saleyards rather than causing suffering or even starvation through lack of food as a result of the country s drought crisis. In every instance, NSPCA personnel involved themselves with monitoring all animals and all species present. In each instance, they ascertained facts and dealt with each case accordingly and in terms of the law. This may involve remedial measures at the time, including education, or may involve a warning issued in terms of the Animals Protection Act or, when justified, the laying of criminal charges, she said. Meanwhile, Morena Kimanu Dlomo and Lati Makatso will appear the Sani Magistrate s Court next week on charges of cruelty laid by the National Council of SPCAs in terms of the Animals Protection Act.They were denied bail earlier this week. The SPCA said 35&nbsp;donkeys were found skinned in a kraal on a plot of land 8km from the border between KwaZulu-Natal and Lesotho in Twin Springs. siyavuya.mzantsi@inl.co.za