Cape Town - A young man will never be able to finish his studies after he was robbed and murdered in Steenberg.Dale Alexander, 21, from Grassy Park was visiting a friend in Botma Street, Steenberg, on Thursday. On his way home that evening Dale was robbed, shot and left for dead in a resident s yard.His mother, Bridgette Alexander, 42, says police were called to the scene that night, but allegedly told the homeowner there was no one in her yard.Dale s body was found on Friday morning by the shocked woman.His shorts, takkies, wallet, cellphone and jewellery were stolen.The grieving mom says Dale was her only child, and the apple of her eye. Dale was a decent young man. He wasn t a gangster. He was a happy child. He was in his final year studying business at False Bay College. Dale was visiting a friend and, according to police, he was robbed and then shot.&quot; I don t know the people whose yard he ran into, but that s the only open yard in that road. He wore a Nike T-shirt, shorts and takkies, they even took his shorts. Bridgette says neighbours heard the altercation on Thursday night and called police. They are saying police arrived and told them they didn t see anything because it was dark. It was the next morning that the owner of the house found Dale s body. It is very hard on us, I m on medication because I have to be strong for my mom who just came home from a serious surgery.&quot; Dale was my life, he was our life, a weeping Bridgette says.Police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana Police spokesperson, Sergeant Noloyiso Rwexana, says according to their reports, Dale was killed on Friday morning. I confirm that a shooting incident occurred on 27 January 2017, at Botma Street, Steenberg, at 9am, she says. According to reports, police responded to the complaint at the address, upon their arrival, they found a body of a 22-year-old man with gunshot wounds. Circumstances surrounding this incident are under investigation. No one has been arrested at this stage. Daily Voice