JOB creation, poverty alleviation, economic growth and empowerment must be addressed at the upcoming National African Federated Chamber of Commerce and Industry (Nafcoc) event in Sun City, Dr Sam Motsuenyane said at the weekend.Speaking at his home in Winterveldt were he was paid a courtesy visit by former president Thabo Mbeki, Motsuenyane said the event was an ideal forum to ensure a sound plan was developed for the economic well-being of the country.Mbeki paid Motsuenyane the visit to prepare for the major event at Sun City on February 1, which will also mark Motsuenyane s 90th birthday and hail his legacy as a pioneer of black businesses.The event will honour the monumental role he has played in establishing a voice for black business in South Africa. It also seeks to remember and preserve the legacy of Motsuenyane of serving South Africans with commitment and distinction in his life time.A pioneering and visionary leader, Motsuenyane is one of the founding fathers and a past president of Nafcoc established in the 1970s and 1980s. Post-1994, Motsuenyane ensured black businesses took their rightful place in the broader economy. This was driven by the need to see black businesses effectively contributing towards growth and development. The event at Sun City will seek to highlight the paramount and significant contribution Dr Motsuenyane has made throughout the many decades dedicated to the growth of black businesses, said Mbeki.The nation needs to be reminded of how Dr Motsuenyane was a catalyst of black empowerment, Mbeki said. His sharp mind and brains is still critical for the development of the country. Other topics discussed were that Winterveldt residents do not use land productively to alleviate poverty, hence Motsuenyane started a citrus initiative. Dr Motsuenyane already works closely with communities in Winterveld where orange-producing activities have been established.&quot; It would be great to investigate other associated entrepreneurial activities and to initiate similar projects country-wide. The Foundation was created and designed to address the needs and challenges which presently impede the development of rural communities, especially in the agricultural sector.Former Public Affairs director Gabrielle Mokgoko, who also attended, said despite Motsuenyane s age, he continues to work tirelessly for the benefit of others. He established three agricultural projects spanning Gauteng, North West and Mpumalanga. Already, the fruits of his endeavours can be seen and are benefiting rural communities where they are located.