The ANC has not taken kindly to remarks by an Australian MP who warned of Melbourne becoming the Johannesburg of the South Pacific if the issue of crime was not adequately addressed.It said the remarks were unfortunate and derogatory and were an insult to Joburg residents and the public servants who worked for the city. In a statement on Thursday the ruling party described the comments, which it described as derogatory, sought to portray South Africa in a negative manner, more specifically the city of Johannesburg as crime-infested . It continued: Late Wednesday a group of inmates escaped from a youth detention facility in Victoria, Australia, leading to a manhunt being launched. The seven inmates who fled (the) facility located 100kms north of the city of Melbourne, are still on the run, having evaded capture. &quot;According to reports, the escapes have led to criticism of the way in which the Victoria government manages the youth justice system, prompting the Leader of the Opposition in the Parliament of Victoria, Matthew Guy MP to call for the sacking of the Premier saying the current government was standing by and allowing Melbourne to become the Johannesburg of the South Pacific'. The comments were regrettable, according to Africa s oldest former liberation movement, as they feed into lazy stereotypes of African cities as crime havens. They serve to tarnish the reputation of the City of Johannesburg known widely as the gateway to Africa; and regularly cited amongst several indices as world-class city. Drawing South Africa with a well established reputation as a leading tourism destination, into the political frays of Victoria state, is unfortunate and unbecoming of a senior Australian politician . The ANC further noted that what was also regrettable was that Guy would likely gain support for his comments from City of Joburg mayor Herman Mashaba, who regularly rubbishes the very city he leads on media platforms . On a number of occasions mayor Mashaba and his party the Democratic Alliance (DA) have described Johannesburg as crime-riddled, going on to blame foreigners for the crime. The Joburg metro fell under a DA-led coalition following last year s municipal elections. The ruling party said it hoped in future Mashaba and the DA would consider the far-reaching impact of their disparaging remarks for in essence the Leader of the Opposition in Victoria, Australia is merely paraphrasing Mayor Mashaba . @luyolomkentaneluyolo.mkentane@inl.co.zaThe Star