IN KEEPING with matric results tradition, Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga yesterday had breakfast with the country s top performers. Motshekga met the 22 candidates at Vodaworld in Midrand. This is the beginning, not a destination for you. We urge you continue to lead our country. You proved you can, she said.The minister said the candidates were ambassadors for the public education system. Motshekga encouraged young people to fight alcohol and drug abuse and instead concentrate on education. As a community and South Africans we must continue to educate our young about the dangers of alcohol, sex and drugs. She said young people s circumstances should not stop them from achieving great results. Personal circumstances must not condemn a child to dire poverty and underachieving, she said. This rang true for Talenta Matiane from Jim Chavani High School in Limpopo, who is one of the best-performing candidates in quintile two schools. He said because of the support of his school and family he was able to achieve good marks. Despite unrest in the Vuwani area at the beginning of the year leading to the closure and burning of schools for several weeks, and the exam paper leak in the Vhembe district, Limpopo has 12 of the best-performing candidates in the country. Gauteng candidates did not make it on to the list. This is despite Gauteng Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi in December saying his candidates would be the best- performing in the country. He accused the North West, Free State and Western Cape of keeping back pupils in Grade 11 so as to do well in matric. Conrad Strydom from Hermanus High School in the Western Cape, one of the top performers in maths and physical science, admitted it had not been easy. During his matric year, Strydom won first place in the South African Physics Olympiad.He said he did not expect to be one of the best achievers in the country. I was studying the whole year. I was doing revision during the holidays. Strydom, 19, plans to study theoretical science at Stellenbosch University. For Hannah Jane Clayton from Rustenburg Girls High School, the year has been about balancing her studies with her love of music. She said she sought a balance between school work, being in the school orchestra, heading its music society and being on the learner representative council. Clayton is one of the top performers in maths in quintile five schools. She achieved 95% in the advanced programme maths exam. She plans to study BSc in maths and science at either Stellenbosch University or UCT.