MAYOR Patricia de Lille says the newly introduced organisational development and transformation plan, which led to the reshuffling of her mayoral committee members, will help the City s efforts to reverse the legacy of apartheid spatial planning and improve service delivery. A lot more has to be done to improve the living conditions of the poor and to redress the imbalances of the past, said De Lille. It is not going to be redressed in 20 years. She introduced her reshuffled cabinet, mini-mayors , and will soon introduce community liaison officers, who will act as go-betweens in communities.Before rolling out new services or starting any projects, the community liaison officers would be responsible for consulting beneficiary communities to inform them about plans for their areas and to avoid unnecessary community conflicts, she said. The number of directorates have been reduced from 11 to 10, according to De Lille, to give effect to the new service delivery model.She said the plan would be incorporated into the City s Integrated Development Plan (IDP) to outline the organisational requirements needed to enhance strategic planning.De Lille said there had been widespread consultations with the unions, and the Council for Conciliation Mediation and Arbitration (CCMA) had appointed an officer to assist in overseeing the processes.She established the Transport and Urban Development Authority by combining the functions of transport, urban development and elements of human settlements into one sphere of control with the aim of reversing the effects of apartheid spatial planning .The authority will be responsible for implementing the Transit-Oriented Development (TOD) Strategic Framework, which will stop long-distance commutes, urban sprawl and will lead to higher density housing opportunities. TOD will see the city become more connected and integrated where residents will have greater access to transport, economic opportunities and affordable and inclusive residential opportunities. This is a crucial plan for our city as the poor are spending 40 percent of their income on transport, she said.What will follow in the next five years are the five TOD projects that have been identified in Paardevlei, Bellville, Philippi, the CBD and Athlone. An energy directorate will be established, where the City will move away from just being an electricity distributor, and we will now be pursuing energy generation as well, especially renewables. De Lille said Cape Town could now secure and give residents greater choice about what kind of energy they used, and how much they paid for it. This will also help us reach our target of sourcing at least 20 percent of our energy needs from renewable sources. Deputy mayor Ian Nelson will no longer be assigned to a portfolio, but will assist De Lille in her duties.Former Mayco member for utility services Ernest Sonnenberg has resigned as a councillor and taken a position in the administration. Benedicta van Minnen has been appointed as chairperson of the disciplinary committee and will be assisting the speaker in governance matters. Brett Herron will be heading the Transport and Urban Development Authority while Johan van der Merwe heads Finance, and Informal Settlements, Water and Waste Services: Energy will be headed by Xanthea Limberg.Stuart Diamond has been appointed to the Assets and Facilities Management committee while JP Smith heads the Social Services and Safety and Security committee. Raelene Arendse is responsible for Corporate Services.The four mini-mayors will be Suzette Little for the northern areas, Anda Ntsondo for the eastern areas, Eddie Andrews for the southern areas and Siyabulela Mamkeli for the central area.