An injured Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa) train driver drove with pieces of glass in his eyes to safety after an attacker shattered the front window of his train with a brick while he was driving into Du Toit railway station near Stellenbosch, the United National Transport Union (Untu) said on Sunday.Willem Spence, 52, an Untu member who had been driving trains for the past 27 years, was driving slowly and had just passed a squatter camp near the station at about 11.45pm when he saw the attacker in front of him on the railway line, Untu general secretary Steve Harris said.The brick shattered the window and pieces of glass flew into his eyes. He also had several cuts on his face and his arms. Spence decided to continue to the Stellenbosch railway station when he could not see any police or security guards at the Du Toit railway station to assist him. His train was filled with commuters.At the Stellenbosch railway station police and security guards helped the injured train driver. He was taken to hospital, where the pieces of glass were removed from his eyes. Spence will be on sick leave for a week before a doctor checks his eyes again, Harris said. It has become life-threatening do drive our trains. We are under siege from criminals who know that we are soft targets. As train drivers we can no longer focus on normal train safety and the safety of the passengers we carry, as we constantly must be on the lookout for criminals, Spence told Harris.Spence used to work as a train driver on the notorious central line between Cape Town and Khayelitsha, but asked Prasa s human resource department to arrange for a transfer to a safe route after he was attacked several times on the central line.Harris said attacks on train crews were no longer limited to specific routes. Over the past three months Untu reported several incidents on various routes in the Western Cape, KwaZulu-Nataland Gauteng. Untu will consult with our legal team tomorrow to approached the courts and to apply for an urgent interdict to force Prasa and the SAPS to protect train crews and commuters on trains. The union has repeatedly warned that this has become a war on our railway lines, but it looks as though Prasa, the minister of transport who is responsible for the state-owned enterprise (SOE), and the South African government who is responsible for the minister, first want to see more innocent taxpayers die before they will do something about this. The situation has got so bad that the only solution will be to bring in the South African Defence Force to protect our railway lines, Harris said.Untu could prove that Prasa had put up notices in December 2015 at railway stations in which it strongly condemns the growing incidents of assaults directed towards staff, including customer services, train crew, and security personnel . Commuters were threated that if this unbecoming behaviour continues , the train services would be suspended. This was not done, said Harris.On November 12 last year, Untu and its federation, the Federation of Unions of South Africa, briefed Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa on the dire situation at Prasa and appealed to him to intervene to protect this crucial national asset, which carried millions of workers to and from work daily. Ramaphosa had not yet responded, Harris said. African News Agency