FOR many inmates involved in the 67 Blankets for Nelson Mandela initiative, the project was a way to give back and connect to the outside communities from which they have been removed. Together, about 2 000 inmates across the country created 10 000 blankets as part of the a record breaking 17 186m&sup2; blanket. The Department of Correctional Services in partnership with the 67 Blankets initiative yesterday celebrated Guinness World Record s recognition of creating the world s biggest blanket, and the certification of offenders and officials who contributed to this success at Drakenstein Correctional Centre. The blanket-making campaign in correctional centres was introduced in August 2015 as part of the offenders rehabilitation programme. Drakenstein Correctional Centre spokesperson Manfred Jacobs said that last year inmates together with Correctional Services officials wanted to plough back into their communities. Members of the initiative came to the prison to assist the inmates and show them how to knit and croch&ecirc;. It was amazing to see. When we started we said we would pull out all the stops. It took a lot of commitment. Everyone contributed, a young offender made 13 blankets on his own, he said. In total 137 inmates and 65 officials from Drakenstein participated and were honoured for their commitment and passion, he said. People who directly benefited (from Drakenstein inmates) included 50 elderly people and 18 other NGOs. If you look at the impact it is skills they have acquired, it teaches discipline and it is a stress reliever. For us it was a positive sign, they embraced this whole project, he said. Inmate Damon Peins, imprisoned for 18 years for rape and robbery, said he asked to be part of the project for his personal development and wanted to do something positive. I felt a sense of enjoyment, excitement and self belief. I believe if I can empower myself I can empower others. The project inspires me to do greater things. South Africa is looking for people to do things in their communities and I want to put up my hand. I want to be counted among those who want to make a difference, he said. It doesn t matter where you are, you can still help people, Peins added. 67 Blankets for Nelson Mandela founder Carolyn Steyn said she realised the impact the project was making on the lives of inmates after meeting with Correctional Services leaders and managing to get about 70 prisons on board. lisa.isaacs@inl.co.za