Aggrieved tertiary education students had the right vent their concerns through peaceful protests, but choking the whole sector through violent protests was uncalled for, Higher Education and Training Minister Blade Nzimande said on Thursday. Please do not forget that while everyone has the constitutional right to protest peacefully, the equally important right of those who wish to continue with teaching and learning, unhindered and without intimidation, must also at all times be respected, Nzimande said in Pretoria. Some of the issues facing our colleges can be dealt with in the short term, particularly if we all display goodwill and a willingness to engage. But whether we like it or not, many others will require time to solve, and I m calling for patience, understanding, and ongoing engagement and dialogue as we work together to resolve these challenges. Nzimande was addressing the media following a series of regular meetings he has held with a range of higher education stakeholders including university student leaders, university vice-chancellors as well as the executive of the South African College Principals Organisation, which represents principals of Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET) colleges.He has also met representatives from the Technical Vocational Education and Training College Governors Council (TVETCGC), which represents TVET college councils, to discuss preparations for the 2017 academic year. I had also attempted to meet the South African Further Education and Training Students Association (SAFETSA), representing TVET colleges students, before this press briefing. However, they were unable to meet me as they are engaged in a campaign to raise their issues. Nevertheless, we have agreed to meet tomorrow (Friday), said Nzimande. These important engagements (the meetings) have imbued me with much confidence about the prospects for higher education this year, amid early suggestions that many of the challenges, which affected our sector in 2016, including the issues of fees and student access, are being addressed substantially. He appealed to all stakeholders in the higher education sector to continue working together to ensure that the scenes of last year do not recur and that stability prevailed in the embattled sector. Nzimande said institutions of higher education were also very keen to know when they would be receiving funds from government. The processes for applying for the 2017 fee adjustment grant, up to a cap of eight percent, was also discussed, with my department committing to releasing a significant portion of this grant to universities and colleges in the first quarter of the year, to assist them with the cash flow challenges that they face, said Nzimande. We also wish to inform you that NSFAS has already paid R1.3 billion to our 26 public universities and TVET colleges an advance payment for registration fees for students from disadvantaged backgrounds, so that they can be admitted for their 2017 studies. All this will assist universities and colleges to pay their operational costs in the first quarter of the year and thereby help with cash flow management at the institutional level. Nzimande said he had not received any reports of violence or intimidation, including any harm to person or destruction of any property at campuses so far this year. We recently received a list of grievances from the body representing TVET students, SAFETSA. We take this list and the students body very seriously. There is nothing in the memorandum we have received from SAFETSA that cannot be resolved with a bit of goodwill and determination by the TVET colleges, of course supported by the department of higher education and training. For example, I announced last year that all students who come from households with a combined income of less than R600 000 per annum would be given subsidy funding to cover this year s fee increases, of up to eight percent. This is one example of the issues raised by SAFETSA, and the answer is very clear, yes, the moratorium on fee rises up to eight percent for 2017 also applies to all TVET students whose family income is below R600 000 per year. This is definitely not just for universities. African News Agency