The ANC, SACP and EFF have rejected the AU s decision to readmit Morocco into the organisation after more than three decades in isolation.The parties said yesterday this decision flew in the face of the occupation of Western Sahara by Morocco.ANC head of international relations Edna Molewa said out of 54 members of the AU only those from the southern African region had opposed the readmission of Morocco.A majority, 39 member states, of the AU backed the readmission of Morocco to the body. The ANC has close ties with the Polisario Front of Western Sahara, and this month President Jacob Zuma hosted his counterpart from Western Sahara, Brahim Ghali.The president of Western Sahara also attended the ANC s 105th birthday celebrations at Orlando stadium in Johannesburg.In his January 8 statement, Zuma expressed support for Western Sahara and called for the independence of the country from Morocco.This is a long-standing call of the ANC and the latest decision of the AU was described by Molewa as regrettable.Molewa said they hoped the readmission of Morocco would not lead to the matter of Western Sahara being swept under the carpet at the AU. The ANC notes that this decision paves the way for the Kingdom of Morocco to take place among the community of nations and enjoy the benefits of AU members, while the Sahrawi people continue to suffer under an unjust occupation of their ancestral land, she said. By readmitting Morocco the AU is tacitly endorsing the long-standing occupation of the Western Sahara. Morocco has to date failed to comply with successive UN resolutions on the issue of the Western Sahara, most importantly the holding of a referendum on self-determination, said Molewa. She said the countries who opposed this decision were those led by former liberation movements and they include South Africa, Zimbabwe, Namibia, Botswana and Algeria. Molewa said this decision was a setback for Western Sahara to gain its independence. Western Sahara remained Africa s last remaining colonial outpost, she added. The SACP said it was shocked by the AU s decision. It said it still pledged solidarity with the people of Western Sahara. The party said the decision was regressive and wrong and the AU owed the continent an explanation on how it made the decision. First of all it is a blatant violation of the AU s Constitutive Act, in particular the principle for African countries to respect each other s territorial borders, said the SACP. Western Sahara was never part of Morocco the latter is colonially occupying the former. An end to the illegal occupation should have been an inviolable precondition for the admission of Morocco to the AU, said the party. The EFF also rejected the decision of the AU to readmit Morocco.EFF spokesperson Mbuyiseni Ndlozi said this decision was in contradiction to Africa s policy against colonialism. The AU resolved to accept Morocco s application but failed to address a fundamental objection as to what happens to the continued subjugation of the people of Western Sahara by the very same Kingdom of Morocco, a disturbing indication of where lies the priorities of the AU, said Ndlozi.