MORE than one million pupils are expected to arrive at schools across the Western Cape to begin the 2017 school year tomorrow. The ANC has promised to monitor schools in the province to deal with any problems or complaints that may arise and ensure a smooth start to the academic year. Education MEC Debbie Sch&auml;fer said the Western Cape Education Department (WCED) had been working hard to ensure that its schools were prepared for the year. I am advised that our schools and officials are as prepared as possible for the 2017 academic year. Most of the preparations were completed well before the end of last year. Furniture and equipment, as well as textbook orders, were made well in advance so as to ensure early delivery at schools before the end of last year. Three new schools and six replacement schools along with 179 additional classrooms had been completed for the school term, she added. The WCED will deploy 119 mobile classrooms, as required, to meet growth and shifting demand. She said suppliers had delivered textbooks by October 30 except in cases where schools opted not to store their books during the end-of-the-year holidays. Schools received workbooks by November 30 and most furniture orders by the end of October. Top-up orders for furniture were scheduled for the end of the year. The WCED introduced the new School Admission Management Information System in 2014. This system has assisted us in providing clear data and indicating which schools are full or still have space. The department received a number of late enrolments every year, either because parents had relocated to the province during the festive season or neglected responsibility to enrol their children on time, she said. ANC chief whip in the provincial legislature Pierre Uys said: The ANC wishes all pupils and students well as they start the new academic year. We urge all to do their best and to follow their dreams. The ANC will check and keep an eye on issues like placement of pupils, the availability of learning material, equipment, infrastructure, oversized classes, pupils safety, withholding of report cards of poor pupils, assistance to disadvantaged or repeating pupils and unfilled teaching positions. He urged young people to enjoy education and grow to their full potential. This is a year of new opportunities. Make the best of it. 