PUPILS from the ORT SA Mathematics and Science Second Chance Programme have excelled in their 2016 matric exams.Last year, 56 pupils from the programme re-wrote matric maths and physical science. ORT SA marketing and communications manager Marcelle Ravid said the performance of the pupils was excellent. We saw a 95 percent pass rate in mathematics and a 94 percent pass rate in physical science. This is higher than the national pass rate and provincial pass rate. Ravid explained that the programme was conceptualised in 2015 after the high failure rate in key subjects such as maths and science. The objective of the programme is to help matriculants from disadvantaged communities who have failed to meet entry requirements into tertiary institutions, owing to either failing or not achieving an exemption in these subjects, she said.Some of the pupils who failed these subjects outright in 2015, who obtained between zero and 29 percent, were able to improve their results and achieved between 50 and 59 percent. Others who had attained between 30 and 39 percent improved to between 60 and 69 percent.Thapelo Thage, 18, from Alexandra, said he had improved his marks by 50 percent and had now applied to study civil engineering. My life has changed ever since. I wish ORT SA could do even more for underprivileged pupils in the townships, he said.Another pupil, 19-year-old Mphahlele Phakisho from Alexandra, said her life had changed dramatically from the moment I entered the Second Chance classroom door . I attended every single class and did my work very well, and I finally made it. Thank you to my teachers for the hard work you really changed my life, she said. Phakisho said she d improved her physical science mark from 43 percent to 66 percent. She has applied to do analytical chemistry at the University of Pretoria.Nine candidates improved their maths marks by more than 80 percent, while 10 candidates also improved their science results by more than 80 percent. Four candidates improved both subjects by more than 80 percent. The head of the Teacher Empowerment Department at ORT SA, Mpho Matlala, said he was thrilled with the improvement of results and the possibilities now open to these youngsters . We are aiming for even better results for the 2017 cohort. The Second Chance programme is funded by Bidvest and includes work readiness and computer courses. ORT SA is a non-profit educational organisation. Prospective applicants can contact Ravid at 084 355 0826 or 011 728 7154.