THE ANC in the Western Cape says it hopes to emerge from the party s birthday celebrations more united after a year marked by crises in the province s leadership.ANC provincial secretary Faiez Jacobs said the party endured a lot of challenges last year, but plans to renew its commitment this weekend. The message to come out of this weekend is of recommitting ourselves to the movement, and to the people we were elected to serve, he said. We have made mistakes as the ANC, but our priority this year is to unite our people and the organisation. There are a lot of challenges faced by them and this year we are striving to advocate for them through our various programmes. Our people deserve a better ANC. Our people deserve better leaders; those of us elected must know that none of us, including myself, are bigger than the ANC. Those who come in with a self-enrichment approach must be dealt with. The provincial leadership was tested last year when the ruling party s national executive committee (NEC) stepped in and appointed a task team after Jacobs suspension and chairperson Marius Fransman being asked to step aside.Jacobs had been suspended for 18 months for assaulting the party s researcher, Wesley Seale, in 2015. His suspension was later suspended for three years, and he returned to his position.Fransman, who was suspended last November, had been asked to step aside pending investigations into allegations of his having sexually harassed Louisa Wynand while on a trip to the ANC s birthday celebration last year.A further decline in votes following local government elections last year also dealt a blow to structures in the province.Yesterday, Jacobs added that their priority moving forward was to come back from the January 8 statement as better leaders.When asked what the provincial leadership structure took away from his and another senior member s suspension, Jacobs said, As leaders none of us are perfect. When we make mistakes, we must be humble and apologise and learn from those mistakes, and move on from them with humility. We are also human, we make mistakes. 