DAM levels are expected to be at 20 percent by around May if current water consumption levels in the province continue, the City says.City spokesperson Priya Reddy yesterday said these levels were predicted for the start of the rainy season. As of yesterday, dam levels are at 42.5 percent. According to our projections, dam levels may reach 20 percent if current rates of water extraction continue. This will result in a low margin of safety as it is difficult to abstract the last 10 percent of a dam s volume, Reddy said. We do not expect to run out of water before the next rainy season but constant water usage above the target of 800 million litres per day of collective use, as has been the case, is not sustainable. We have the ability now to turn this situation around. And we will only be able to do this if water use is reduced and members of the public help us to do so, Reddy added. Total consumption since water restrictions were passed have remained consistently above targeted levels.Reddy said it is estimated that 42 000kl (the equivalent of 17 Olympic-sized swimming pools) of water is saved every day through the pressure management programme. The City makes use of alternative non-potable sources to offset the demand on potable water, for example cleaning of streets and watering of the Company s Garden. Last week, the City embarked on a water blitz operation, with a team of 45 officials from the City of Cape Town s Water Inspectorate in the Tygerberg/Goodwood area. The blitz resulted in the issuing of one fine to the value of R2 000 for the hosing down of concrete surfaces with potable water.Given that the City supplies water to close to a million customers and that most wastage occurs behind closed doors, the City has appealed to residents to report and supply evidence of alleged transgressions. We are unable to police every occurrence of water use infringements considering the size of the metro. Residents therefore have a material role to play in obeying the restrictions and ensuring that they are the City s enforcement ambassadors, Reddy said.