WESTERN Cape firefighters had their hands full as they battled 106 bush and grass fires in one day alone. The four-star Bezweni Lodge was completely gutted by a blaze near Somerset West, while a young springbok s feet were burnt in the same fire that ravaged the area for two days.City Fire and Rescue spokesman Theo Layne said 125 firefighters and two helicopters were assisted by Working on Fire firefighters and Cape Nature to try to extinguish the flames. The fire is still burning. Bezweni Lodge has been destroyed. Seven houses were also affected, he said.Lodge manager Peter Weideman said on his Facebook page that they were not sure of the extent of the damage, but that no one had been hurt.City safety and security director Richard Bosman said: A young bokkie was found below Bezweni Lodge with burnt feet, and we took it to the nature reserve so that a vet could attend to it. He said that things were looking better than on Tuesday when the fire broke out.Mayoral committee member for safety and security JP Smith said fire and rescue services had been stretched as they battled blazes ranging from the mountain fire in Somerset West to smaller grass and bush fires in the City Bowl. The City of Cape Town s firefighters were put to the test over these last few days as they battled to contain fires across the city. Tuesday alone, firefighters battled 106 bush and grass fires. Most of these fires were contained and extinguished before they could cause too much damage. However, several bigger fires continue to rage, requiring crews to work through the night and remain on standby, he said. A wildfire in Somerset West spread to surrounding farms including Bezweni, Knorhoek, Wedderwill and Vergelegen on Tuesday.Layne said on Tuesday that the strong south-easterly wind and steep terrain presented a challenge for firefighters.Thick smoke still filled the sky yesterday as the fire swept through hectares of forest and spread to seven different locations. Helicopters are still water-bombing in an effort to contain the fire. Firefighters are still supported by the firefighters from Working on Fire, he said.Layne appealed to the public to donate refreshments, both solids and liquids, to the Strand Fire Department, where the management team would ensure that they were distributed to the fire crews who were trying to control the intense fire. [email&#160;protected]