A LOCAL fisherman says he spent more than R1 million to upgrade his vessel before employing 50 workers only to hear it was all in vain in the Western Cape High Court yesterday. Cape Fish Processes owner Harry Mentor was pulling his hair out in court yesterday after Judge Lee Bozalek ruled in favour of an interdict against new fishing rights.The ruling effectively puts on hold the Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries latest allocation of fishing rights and quantum in the Hake Inshore Trawl and Sole Fishery sector.Fishing industry giant Viking Inshore had applied for an interdict against the department s hake fishing quotas for 2017 citing that the department had unreasonably penalised the company with fatally flawed affirmative action transformation criteria.Mentor said he was devastated that he could not enter the hake fishing sector this year. I have worked in the fishing industry for 50 years and after 23 years I was finally allowed to fish for hake. I have spent millions on a vessel I cannot use. My 28 crew members, factory workers and office staff will have no work, Mentor said.The fisherman said no transformation of real merit was taking place in the industry which has been controlled by big businesses for centuries and had over 20-years to transform but did not.Vikings court papers indicated its black ownership numbers were at 33.2 percent, resulting in allocation reduction which was then given to new entrants that met the transformation criteria.Advocate Russell MacWilliam, last week arguing for Vikings, told the court the criteria and formula used by the department to penalise his client was fatally flawed and unreasonable .He said a large part of the documentation submitted for the interdict would be their basis on appeal set for February 6. Judge Bozalek ruled the late submission of the application was not due to the undertaking of Viking, but lay with the department in its delay in finalising the processes for the new rights. The first and second respondent are interdicted and restrained from processing applications or issuing any permits to any of the 28 respondents in terms of the 2015/16 fishing rights. The applicant and third (respondent) and further 25 respondents are restrained from seeking to exploit any rights assumed to the rights granted by the first and second respondent, said the judge.The judgment would be submitted to the 28 respondents immediately and would stand until the current rights appeals process is completed next month.Judge Bozalek said the dilemma is that even if the applicant is successful in the appeals process it may very well suffer irreparable harm. He said companies like Viking had invested extensively into the industry in contrast to the 12 new entrants that had yet to and stood to lose far less.A woman said she worked as a fish cleaner in Hout Bay and was at court in support of opposing the interdict. We were here since the beginning because our livelihood is impacted. We get paid to clean fish R5, sometimes R10 per fish. Many of us are single mothers and we are dependent on the work. She said it was unfair big companies got to do what they wanted at the expense of the poor. ANC Economic Cluster chairperson Linda Moss said the party was disappointed at the outcome. Government makes legislation in Parliament that transformation must take place within industry, like the fishing industry. Those benefiting are doing their utmost to keep the industry white and denying their own workers the opportunity and right to also share in profits. She said it was the duty of the government to ensure processes were followed in ensuring transformative laws could not be challenged.The third respondent in the matter, SeaVuna Fishing Company, had not yet received the ruling yesterday and asked for time to respond.