THE ANC is facing two possible probes into its so-called war room project, which sought to dig dirt on opposition parties.This comes after the official opposition asked the Independent Communications Authority of South Africa (Icasa) and the Electoral Commission of SA (IEC) to investigate the party. The IEC and Icasa said yesterday they would look into the matter, with the IEC insisting the issue would be discussed at its next full meeting. The commission can confirm a meeting took place today with members of the DA at the IEC's national office in Centurion, the body said. The DA delegation was led by the leader of the party, Mmusi Maimane. On the other hand, the IEC delegation was led by chairperson Glen Mashinini. It said this was a scheduled meeting arising from an incident that took place last August following a request by the DA. The commission can also confirm that Mr Maimane took the opportunity of today's engagement to raise concerns regarding ongoing reports of the ANC war room and allegations of a misinformation campaign, it said. The commission delegation has noted all the issues raised by the DA and has undertaken to report and deliberate on these matters at a full meeting, it added. Maimane said that after his discussions with the IEC on the ANC's fake news campaign, the commission promised to investigate the matter.He said the IEC urged him to submit a formal complaint and they would investigate it. He said this would be done in the coming days. At the same time in Parliament, DA MP Phumzile van Damme asked Icasa to conduct a similar probe against the ANC.But Icasa refused to be drawn into the war room debacle, saying it did not investigate the print media on fake news allegations. However, it urged Van Damme to submit a formal complaint on the matter and it would look into it. Icasa councillor Nomvuyiso Batyi told MPs yesterday its mandate was to regulate the broadcasting sector, and they would not be involved in matters related to other sectors of the media.Batyi was responding to questions from Van Damme on whether they would launch an inquiry into the whole fake news saga.However, Batyi said Van Damme could send her request to Icasa in writing so that they could look at it.Icasa was appearing before the portfolio committee on communications on the SABC s failure to comply with its order to lift the ban on footage of violent protests.The ANC has been accused of setting up a war room ahead of the local government elections in August, through which it wanted to raise R50 million and dig up dirt on opposition parties.Public relations consultant Sihle Bolani is suing the ANC for R2.2m for not paying her, and at the same time, ANC general manager Ignatius Jacobs has launched a counter-lawsuit against Bolani. The ANC has denied the allegations of a fake news campaign and said the people involved in the project were volunteers. Batyi said they would not get involved in matters outside the broadcast sector. She said it would be difficult for Icasa to get into an area that did not relate to its mandate.Van Damme said she would give Icasa more details on the fake news. ANC spokesperson Zizi Kodwa could not be reached for comment.