AS harsher water restrictions come into effect in Cape Town today, the hospitality industry, malls and gyms have risen to the challenge to conserve water.The City last week announced Level 3B water restrictions as dam levels continued to fall. As of January 30, dam levels have dropped to approximately 39.2%, which is 1.3% down from a week ago.With the last 10% of a dam s water being unusable, city supply dam levels could be seen as effectively around 29.2%. In the city centre, The Townhouse Hotel has put its guests to task to save water. The hotel has included buckets in each room and is encouraging guests to shower with a bucket. The water collected in the bucket is used to water the garden areas and trees around the hotel. The initiative is already seeing results, with 81 buckets full of grey water distributed between the Townhouse s small front area, the pavement trees and plants on traffic islands near the hotel between January 21 and 26.The Federated Hospitality Association of Southern Africa s Cape acting chairperson, Jeff Rosenberg, said the water crisis would be on the agenda when its industry partners meet on February 10. Our visitors from overseas also need to be made aware of the water crisis. It is becoming more and more important to look at this as a joint effort from all role-players. We need to share ideas because of the crisis we are facing, he said. V&amp;A Waterfront spokesperson Enid Vickers said the Waterfront began introducing water-wise measures to its operations in 2009. It uses waterless urinals and water-efficient plumbing accessories such as sensor taps.&nbsp;The V&amp;A &nbsp;has two boreholes that are used for irrigation across the property, and is currently investigating the use of this water for other purposes, she said.The V&amp;A is connecting the Clock Tower building to the Silo District s cooling plant; this should be complete by the end of next month. The new Canal District s Waterway House uses air-cooled chillers, requiring no cooling towers.&nbsp;On average, the property saves around 9 000 kilolitres of water per building per month.Canal Walk Shopping Centre marketing manager Vanessa Herbst said measures implemented to save water included timing devices on the air-conditioning chillers and making use of grey water for all irrigation.&nbsp; lisa.isaacs@inl.co.za