NCEBAKAZI October was close to tears as she told how her two-room shack she shares with two siblings and her infant daughter was torn down by the City of Cape Town s Land Invasion Unit three times in less than two weeks. Her shack is one of about 20 the Red Ants, with the assistance of law enforcement, razed on Tuesday. Her building material was confiscated and furniture scattered around. Her shack was destroyed on Christmas Day, as well as on December 28 and on Tuesday. She says she has been living on the site, along Govan Mbeki Road in Nyanga for not less than four months. The city disagrees, saying her structure was unoccupied, thus a court order was not necessary. Mayoral committee member for human settlements Benedicta van Minnen said: The structures were new and under construction. They were thus dismantled before they became homes. This was therefore not an eviction and did not require an eviction order. October said she lost her job early last year and could not pay rent for a back yard room, thus she moved to the open land. I cannot afford rent. My siblings depend on me because they are still young. Schools will re-open next week and how am I supposed to prepare and go look for job when I don t have a roof on top of my head? she asked. Since the first eviction, her siblings had been living with family. The City is taking my dignity away, said an angry October. Along with October, more than 50 people including babies, have been left homeless as a result of eviction. October and the residents have vowed to remain at their stands and are threatening to fight the move. The evictions have come under fire from activists, with some saying they were illegal because there was no court order granting the city permission to effect them. Activist Lebohang Koloi said the land occupiers had not been given notice when they were evicted. He said the occupied land has been standing empty for decades and used as a rubbish dumping site before the desperate families moved in several months ago. It is frustrating and disappointing that there is no court order when evicting the families. This shows that the city is careless about these people. They are armed, we are not and they use force to evict us, said Koloi. We will try by all means to fight back and find out how best we can give assistance to the families to remain on the land. City spokesperson Priya Reddy said the removals did not require an eviction order as they were not evictions. The city will act within all legal parameters at its disposal to prevent the illegal occupation of land, which becomes a fire and flood risk, she said. Reddy said October and the other families were encouraged to approach their police station and to complete an affidavit with evidence and other supporting documentation so that their claims can be investigated by the relevant authority.