A tip-off regarding the murder of seven-year-old Charneal Carstens, who was killed in Whitehouse Way, Epping Forest, led to the arrest of a second suspect at the weekend. Police say detectives investigating the murder and attempted murder of another bystander arrested the 32-year-old on Friday at the at Goodwood Magistrate's Court, where he had appeared for another case. He and the other suspect, a 17-year-old, are believed to have been behind the murder of Charneal, who sustained a gunshot wound through her right cheek and died on the scene on December 11. A resident in a wheelchair was also wounded in the drive-by shooting, according to the Elsies River Community Policing Forum (CPF).The 17-year-old had been arrested a day after the incident after detectives attached to the case acted on information received on the whereabouts of one of the suspects, and searched a residence in Blue Downs. Police would not say whether they were searching for more suspects, but confirmed their investigation was continuing.Police spokesman FC van Wyk yesterday said the 32-year-old would appear in the Bishop Lavis Magistrate's Court today on charges of murder and attempted murder. Violence against women and children is always high on the SAPS's agenda, and the police members involved are applauded for their hard work to ensure justice is served in this case of the murder of this seven-year-old girl, said Van Wyk.The CPF yesterday said Char- neal s father was still battling to come to terms with the death of his only child. It said the suspect was on bail and had other murder and attempted pending cases. The CPF said residents had started a petition against the suspect's release.CPF deputy chairman Imran Mukaddam applauded the community for coming forward with information that led to the arrest. He said the shooting was gang related and the shooters &quot;wanted to send a message . This place is very unstable. There is a gang rivalry that has affected the community very badly, but it's great to see the community taking a stand against crime. It's good to hear that someone has been arrested, but how was this person granted bail in the first place?&quot;