THE Muslim Judicial Council (MJC) has called for calm within the Muslim community after two Islamophobic incidents in the past week.This past weekend a pig s snout was placed outside Simon s Town mosque and blood smeared on the mosque s windows.The mosque is one of the oldest in SA, according to the MJC.The act follows an incident involving Langebaan resident Liam Christian Ferreira, who took to Facebook last week, referring to the congregation as bastards and calling for a mosque in the seaside town to be burned down.MJC general secretary Shaykh Isgak Taliep has called for calm in the wake of these incidents. We call on our communities to allow us to pursue all avenues available to us, as what our constitution allows. There must be calm in the wake of these acts. It must not incite violence as the council will champion these incidents on behalf of these two Muslim communities, said Taliep.He said they received no new information from police about the defacement, but it is under investigation. The MJC and the Langebaan Muslim community has discussed the matter and approached the South African Human Rights Commission. If the individual who made these statements wishes to apologise, he must do it at the offices of the commission, said Taliep.Ferreira said he had not received any word from the MJC after he apologised. I have sent a personal apology to both the president of the Langebaan mosque and after having received no reply, took it upon myself to forward the e-mail to the MJC. Explaining the situation and asking that they please forward it to the Langebaan leadership. I want everyone out there to know I condemn what they (Simon s Town incident) have done, as a way of solidifying my apology in the hearts and minds of those I offended, said Ferreira.In an e-mail to the MJC, Ferreira refers to his act as not an incursion on the religion of Islam, but rather an asinine choice of words aimed at your (Langebaan) organisation .Langebaan Mosque chairan Namwaal Nakidien said the MJC feels the matter should not be dealt with in isolation. It is not Mr Ferreira alone that should be in the dock of public condemnation, but the ideology of intolerance. &quot;That has the potential to disturb our country s peaceful coexistence of all religions, said Nakidien. [email&#160;protected]