KALK Bay residents and business owners have lifted the lid on what they have deemed discriminatory practices by The Brass Bell restaurant for years.Locals lambasted the restaurant yesterday for blocking mainly Cape Flats families from accessing the beach over the festive season. Talking exclusively to the Cape Times yesterday, they claim that since 2012, the Brass Bell has gradually made access to the beach and public toilets more difficult.They claim the restaurant went as far as hiring a bouncer in 2013 to control access. After an outcry, the bouncer was swiftly removed, they allege. On New Year s Day, beachgoers were left fuming that people, mainly from the Cape Flats, had been blocked from accessing a public toilet and tidal pool near the restaurant. The gate was later reopened by law enforcement, with authorities saying control over the gate rested with Kalk Bay harbour master Shafiek Ebrahiem. While management had initially refuted claims they had control over the gate, residents say they were told to ask Brass Bell management for a key to access it. Resident Steve Herbert said the gate had been locked since Christmas Day. When I went down on January 1, I found the gate locked and two Metro Police officers on the other (harbour) side. They told me the manager had the key and would open it for me. The manager could not be found. Herbert said when he asked why the gate was locked he was told it was to control access and alcohol being brought on to the beach. I said that surely the gate should be open and that the two of them could then still control anyone coming through. Obviously any family laden with kids, blankets, food etc etc would be intimidated and turn back, he said. The gate was still locked on January 3, Herbert says. While there had been a successful effort by all roleplayers to keep the beach safe and clean, and traffic free flowing and safe for pedestrians, the gate being closed had caused unhappiness. You have to see it through the eyes of one of the families from Bonteheuwel, out for the day with their whole family, with their blankets, they come down the stairs, come up the other side, and here s this wall of white people, sitting having breakfast, and it is intimidating. And then there s a gate that s locked. Local business owner Antonio Burger said he felt that the restaurant did not want people from the Cape Flats in close proximity to its customers, as it could be seen as being bad for business. They will never stop someone who knows their rights. They will stop someone that feels intimidated that will just walk away and move on. They know it works. They make the underprivileged people feel uncomfortable, he said. Mary-Ann Naidoo, who flagged the incident on social media, said through gentrification, Kalk Bay was seeing an encroachment on public spaces to make way for growing business, ultimately pushing people of colour away. The first and the second (of January) are two days in the entire year that people from Bonteheuwel, Manenberg... have time with their families. It is the pilgrimage to the one traditional beach which they feel they belong to, she said. People have stopped coming to the beach because they felt unwelcome, she added. Addressing the allegations, Brass Bell owner Tony White said: Brass Bell is merely a tenant. Please look to the landlord, Prasa for comment. He also added: I must say everybody that I spoke to was amazed that the closing of the gate by the Harbour Master for about two hours, could have made front page, headline news, which was also false, amidst the carnage on our roads, the drowning in Kalk Bay Harbour and the drowning of two small children under the bridge in Muizenberg. How about some of the good news? For instance: there were almost no incidents, unlike in previous years, due to the strong presence of the police on the Harbour Beach and the preventative action taken by the Harbour Master. Large amounts of alcohol were confiscated and the police presence prevented unruly behaviour. This enabled families with children to enjoy a pleasant day on the beach, because of the controls implemented. Perhaps the Cape Times needs to adopt a more balanced approach. When asked again to address the allegations, White said: I think everything was explained in your front page headline article wherein it was detailed that the gate was closed at the request of the Harbour Master and with the full support of the City of Cape Town. The Brass Bell was not involved. Prasa did not respond to requests for comment by deadline.