SCHOOLS across the Western Cape opened yesterday with mixed emotions on display as first-time pupils greeted their new environment with a mix of sadness, excitement and anticipation.Phelisa Nombewu, who accompanied her six-year-old son Mandlanonke to his first day at St Michael s Primary School in Khayelitsha, said she was excited to see her baby boy growing up so quickly. I am so happy and excited for him as this is the beginning of a long journey for him. She added that Mandlanonke had been excited to go to school but, on their arrival, he said he wanted to go home.Mandlanonke stuck to his mother and did not want to leave her sight, stating that he was shy and scared while trying to hold back his tears.Zuzeka Melaphi, who also acompanied her six-year-old son, Oyintando Melaphi, said that preparing for the opening of school was very hectic . Preparations were very busy. I went up and down to try to get my child as prepared as he could be and, fortunately, I managed. &quot;Education is very important and I hope that he can study further and be successful. De Kuilen Primary School principal Christie Fourie said the school had achieved a 98.2 percent pass rate last year.The school was not satisfied and hoped to better that mark this year. We have a dedicated staff and we are looking to empowering the children and instilling good value systems in them. He added that none of the children cried, which put many of the parents at ease because it showed them that they were growing up.Grade 1 teacher, Samantha van Jaarsveld, said she was excited to get new pupils because she got to empower young children at an early age. Teaching Grade 1 is never boring. Each year is filled with fun and new adventures. Meanwhile, Education MEC Debbie Sch&auml;fer visited Valhalla Primary School to oversee the readiness of the school for the new year and ensure that teaching and learning started from the first day. It was heart-warming to see so many parents there to accompany their children to school on their first day. &quot;Some Grade R learners and their parents shed some tears, while the Grade 1 learners settled down quickly and said quick goodbyes to their parents, she said.