VIDEO footage shows that a Katlehong policeman who was shot dead in a firefight with robbers was killed by a colleague. The officers were exchanging fire with five men at a petrol filling station last Thursday. Police launched a manhunt for the heavily armed robbers who took off with an undisclosed amount of cash from the tills. It is believed the robbers were driving a silver Q7 Audi.Despite insinuations by the police in a media statement that the constable was shot by robbers, a video from the scene seen by The Star shows he was shot by his colleague. In the 39-second long video, three uniformed police officers and a man in civilian clothing can be seen furiously firing ahead of them. The two uniformed officers are leaning against the building s closed roller door; another occasionally fires while leaning against a wall in a dark corner. The fourth man in plain clothes is lying on the ground while firing his weapon.At about 14 seconds into the video, one of the uniformed policemen walks backwards while still firing shots. It is at this point that his colleague standing behind him fires a shot into his back just above his left shoulder.The shot officer falls instantly, and the shooter, apparently in shock, jumps backwards. Facing the gunshots fired by the robbers and towards his colleague s slumped body, the policeman kneels and fires more shots. He, as well as the other uniformed officer, disappear from the camera footage, while the man in civilian clothing continues firing shots while lying on his stomach.The two officers re-emerge a few seconds later. The officer who fired the shot then returns and attends to his wounded colleague.Police spokeswoman Brigadier Mathapelo Peters said the SAPS were aware of the footage but would not comment on it as they were still investigating its authenticity. The video has been brought to our attention but we are not sure of its source. What I can say is a high-level investigation led by the Hawks has been launched. We are awaiting the outcome, she said.