ANC leaders tore into each other yesterday as the party s succession race escalated.Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa fought back after President Jacob Zuma hinted at Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma succeeding him as ANC leader.In his address to the ANC provincial rally in the Eastern Cape, Ramaphosa warned ANC members to be conscious enough and never elect or support party leaders who steal public funds.Speaking at the Walter Sisulu University in Mthatha during the ANC s 105th anniversary celebrations, Ramaphosa called on party members not to allow factional groupings to manipulate branches to support their preferred candidates.Addressing a similar party event in George, Western Cape, ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe told party members to be wary of people who campaigned for either themselves, their friends or family members.ANC treasurer Zweli Mkhize also warned party members in KwaDukuza in KwaZulu-Natal not to be drawn into factional battles because factions don t win elections.Zuma, who made a surprise appearance at the same rally where Mkhize was scheduled to be the keynote speaker, urged party members to prepare for the policy conference in Gauteng in June instead of engaging in factional battles.But Ramaphosa spared no effort in launching a broadside at party leaders. ANC branches have always displayed unity. The problem is with leaders who divide branches for their personal gains. &quot;We must also face the reality about factionalists who use taxpayers money to buy votes from branch members to advance their political agendas. Mantashe also hit hard at those using their families to be elected into positions.In what appears to be a swipe at Zuma, Mantashe warned against electing leaders based on gender. The debate on the presidency, people say we want a woman president.&quot;No we don t want a woman president, we want the president of the ANC whether that president is a woman or a man. That is why we should never base the debate of 2017 on a tradition that does not exist, so if we are saying a certain deputy president must not ascend to the position of president give an argument as to why, where they are incompetent, or not performing. And if you do not provide an explanation or say we must not have a debate then both assertions are flawed. Zuma called on party members to stop talking about succession.Instead they must prepare for the forthcoming policy conference. It is like people are possessed with positions. &quot;They like talking about this from dawn to dusk. People want the policy conference in June to discuss positions. Don t look for your friend to occupy a position, look for a talented comrade who would be able to work for the ANC. Mkhize warned: We must never agree to be recruited to factions. &quot;You must stick to the policies of the ANC and make it strong and unite the ANC because you want to inherit the ANC when it is still in charge of the country.&quot;You don t want to inherit an ANC that has lost elections. There is no faction that can win in the conference and then win the elections for the ANC. &quot;The conference must be won by the ANC, therefore we must refuse to be drawn into factionalism. 