THE life of jazz icon Thandi Klaasen was celebrated the way she lived through love and song.Klaasen, who died after a short battle with pancreatic cancer, was remembered in tributes at the Germiston City Hall as being loving, resilient, extremely talented and an activist. The memorial was attended by many of the entertainment industry's giants such as Babsy Mlangeni, Blondie Makhene, Caiphus Semenya, Letta Mbulu, Dorothy Masuka and Abigail Kubheka.Government and political figures included Communications Minister Faith Muthambi, Deputy Minister of Arts and Culture Rejoice Mabudafhasi, Gauteng MEC for Arts, Culture, Sports and Recreation Faith Mazibuko, Ekurhuleni Mayor Mzwandile Masina and member of Parliament and former Ekurhuleni mayor, Mondli Gungubele.Speaking at the service, Klassen s son Roger Mpambani said of the many lessons he d carry with him from his mother, the most important one was to love God. That woman knew and respected God. She taught me to include God in everything I do. &quot;My mother also had a big heart and was strong, Mpambani said. Her daughter Lorraine Klaasen said she learnt to be the artist that she is today by observing her mother. I always observed her and said I wanted to be like my mother when I grew up. &quot;I fulfilled that promise because I am like her, Lorraine said.Klassen s friend, Sally Peterston, highlighted the jazz great's political activism. Thandi always had a card up her sleeve for the poorest of the poor, and she contributed greatly to the liberation movement, she said.Poet and writer Don Mattera recited a few lines from one of his poems in Klaasen's honour. He said that the best way to remember Klaasen and her legacy was through the love and compassion she showed others. When you love you must care and when you have compassion you must heal, Mattera said.With music from the Dr Johnny Mekoa Orchestra Ensemble, the living legends tribute and the SABC and Ekurhuleni Metro Police Department choirs, the atmosphere was light.Anecdotes of Klassen s life also highlighted her sense of humour and grace.Klassen will be buried tomorrow at the Heroes' Acre.Ekurhuleni Mayor Masina also confirmed that the South African jazz great would be given a civic funeral and awarded the Freedom of the City by the Ekurhuleni Municipality posthumously.