AS UNIVERSITIES are about to open their doors for a new academic year, ANC president Jacob Zuma has appealed to all those involved to refrain from acts of protests. Let all stakeholders, including government, speak with one voice, he said.Zuma made multiple appeals to students in his speech while delivering his January 8 statement to mark the 105th birthday of the ANC, at a packed Orlando Stadium in Soweto, yesterday.He told more than 70 000 people his party had gone beyond its Freedom Charter policy on tertiary education to ensure the poorest of the poor gain access to education . The Freedom Charter says higher education and technical training shall be open to all, that is the right to it, by means of state allowances and scholarship on the basis of merit. The right is open, but access is on the basis of merit. The ANC has gone beyond its policy by ensuring that even the poorest, and children of working-class people, have access to education. It was on this basis that the ANC said children of family who have an annual income of up to R600 000 do not have to pay university fees. It is our measure of alleviating the burden of the missing middle class to further expand to access to institutions of higher education, he said.The appeal to students and university management comes during an imminent threat of further #FeesMustFall protests, which affected most of the universities last year. The institutions suffered damages of almost R1 billion due to the protests throughout the country. Central to South Africa s higher education funding crisis is a university system that is grossly underfunded, small in size and where education is increasingly sold as a commodity. The financial burden is increasingly transferred to poor and working-class families, Zuma said.Zuma, however, said progress was being made to ensure that a lot of people had access to education, saying the National Students Financial Aid Scheme (NSFAS) was covering for the tuition of 75 percent of the students in tertiary education.He also said that his government spent last year, a little more than R9bn to assist students from poor and working-class families. The provision of a fully subsidised free university education for new university entrants from poor and working class families in 2017 is expected to cost the state slightly less than R6 billion, Zuma said.It was at this stage, that he made the impassioned plea for calm at the country s institutions of higher education, calling for all those involved in higher education to await the outcome of the Heher Commission of Inquiry into Higher Education and Training.