What lessons can researchers learn from the 15 year old girls who outperformed boys in collaborative problem solving in every country around the world, according to the new study by the 
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) in Paris? In CM Rubin’s interview with Andreas Schleicher, director for the directorate of education and skills at the OECD, he notes: “Girls show more positive attitudes towards relationships, meaning that they tend to be more interested in others’ opinions and want others to succeed.” Schleicher also notes that “strong academic skills will not automatically also lead to strong social skills. Part of the answer 
lies in giving pupils more ownership over the time, place, path, 
pace, and interactions of their learning. “Another part of the answer can lie in fostering more positive relationships at school and designing learning environments that benefit students’ collaborative problem-solving skills and their attitudes towards collaboration.” The first assessment of collaborative problem solving skills aims to help countries and economies 
see where their pupils stand in relation to their peers in other education systems. Pupils in 52 countries completed this test in addition to the main OECD Pisa 2015 Survey 
on Science, Mathematics and 
Reading. CM Rubin World launched in 2010 to explore what kind of education would prepare pupils to succeed in a rapidly changing globalised world. Its award-winning series, The Global Search for Education, is a celebrated trailblazer in the renaissance of the 21st century, and occupies a special place in the pulse of key issues facing every nation and the collective future of all children. It connects today’s top thought leaders with a diverse global audience of parents, pupils and educators. Its highly readable platform allows for discourse concerning our highest ideals and the sustainable solutions we must engineer to achieve them. CM Rubin has produced over 500 interviews and articles discussing an expansive array of topics under a singular vision: when it comes to the world of children, there is always more work to be done. CM RubinWorld david@cmrubinworld.com