The election of Cyril Ramaphosa as ANC president on Monday signifies a new era for the party, the South African Municipal Workers Union (Samwu). "The South African Municipal Workers Union notes and welcomes the election victory of comrade Cyril Ramaphosa with excitement and jubilation.  "The election of Ramaphosa as the president of the ANC signifies a new era for Africa’s oldest liberation movement, an era which we so much look forward to being part of through the alliance as an affiliate of Cosatu [Congress of SA Trade Unions]," said general secretary Simon Mathe. "We trust and hope that president Cyril Ramaphosa will facilitate the immediate implementation of the National Health Insurance which had been deliberately delayed by the previous incumbent. Not only is this a win for democracy. but it's also a win for workers who have long been marginalised. "Gone are the times when trade unions and workers would find it difficult to campaign for the ANC given challenges of the organisation, in particular leadership and scandals which taken away the hope and confidence that South Africans had in the party. We believe that this victory would make it easy for us to sell the ANC to our people." Ramaphosa was elected ANC president at the 54th elective conference of the 105-year-old organisation in Nasrec, Johannesburg on Monday. He beat former African Union Commission chairperson Dr Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma to ascend the throne. Mpumalanga Premier David Mabuza was elected deputy president, while Free State Premier Ace Magashule was elected secretary-general, replacing Gwende Mantashe, who is now the national chairperson. Gauteng provincial chairman Paul Mashatile was elected treasurer.  Mathe said the union trusts that Ramaphosa would assist workers, particularly municipal workers, Extended Public Works Programme (EPWP) and the Community Works Programme (CWP), who had been made to be suppliers of cheap labour to all spheres of government. "We believe that this election victory is indicative of the directions which members of the ANC and workers who had been in the forefront of the Ramaphosa campaign have for the party and county at large." Meanwhile, the ANC North West provincial executive committee (PEC) said it welcomed and congratulates the newly elected national officials of the ANC as elected at the Nasrec conference. "We trust that the new leadership will ensure that policies of the ANC as resolved by this conference are implemented in full.  "These are the policies which will manifest the ANC’s hegemony in leading society and bettering the lives of our people through the implementation of the radical socio-economic transformation, by making meaningful changes of transferring, management and control of the mainstream economy of the country," said provincial secretary Dakota Legoete. "The meaningful changes can only be realised under the leadership of the African National Congress to deal effectively with the triple challenges of poverty, inequality and unemployment that are a burden to our people. "Over and above these challenges the leadership must address all the political challenges facing the movement. As ANC in Bokone Bophirima [North West] we look forward to being led by this collective towards  a stronger and more united ANC." North West went to the conference supporting Dlamini Zuma's presidential bid. In Lethabon,g outside Rustenburg, Ramaphosa's victory was a small affair, five cars drove around flashing emergency lights with blaring horns. African News Agency (ANA)