He was speaking at a justice service imbizo in the rural Cape Winelands town of Gouda yesterday for the culmination of the 16 Days of Activism for No Violence against Women and Children campaign and in commemoration of International Human Rights Day. Masutha said Gouda was chosen for the imbizo because the community faced high levels of poverty and many were dependent on social grants. “My department will work tirelessly to ensure the safety and well being of all women and children,” he said.  Masutha was joined by Justice Department regional head Hishaam Mohamed,Correctional Services regional commissioner Delekile Klaas, Western Cape Director of Public Prosecutions advocate Rodney de Kock. “Our constitution holds the most comprehensive set of human rights that form the bedrock of our constitutional order and places the attainment of human rights for all who live within our country at the centre of all government policy and legislation.  "Our women, children, persons with disabilities and the elderly are especially protected by our constitution and there has been widespread media and public focus on violence against women and children during the 16 Days of Activism campaign,” he said. Masutha said there had been a spike in crime over the last year with contact crimes increasing and drug-related cases also on the increase, while domestic violence had become predominant. He cited a case of pregnant 25-year-old Tulbagh resident Mariska Diedricks, who was tortured and murdered in October.  Her sister Anadia sustained serious stab wounds to her back. These gruesome acts of violence against women must never be accepted or condoned by our communities, said Masutha.  He urged the town’s residents to use the gathering as an opportunity to interact with the different roleplayers present to seek the assistance they needed. “The constitution promises all our people a better life. It promises equality and freedom, but freedom means very little if our women and children are too afraid to leave their homes or they face violence on a daily basis,” he said.   dominic.adriaanse@inl.co.za 