CAPE TOWN - We are all looking for the best Christmas tree. But for most people it won't cost them an arm and a leg. For the Emirates Palace hotel in Abu Dhabi, money was clearly not an option. The luxury Abu Dhabi hotel, Emirates Palace currently holds the title of the most expensive Christmas tree, reports Arabian Business. Worth approximately R151 million, the 13-metre fake evergreen tree is decorated with silver and gold bows, ball-shaped ornaments and white lights. READ: Top 10 ways to save money this Christmas However, the outstanding value of the tree is attributed to its more valuable decorations. Decorated with necklaces, earrings and other jewellery, this tree has cashed up its worth. The owner of Style Gallery, Khalifa Khouri who provided the jewellery, told Arabian Business that the tree holds 181 diamonds, pearls, emeralds, sapphires and other precious stones. The tree itself is reportedly worth about R137 000, the general manager of the Emirates Palace, Hans Olbertz told Arabian Business. However, the jewellery is estimated to be over R151 million. READ ALSO: Bikers make Christmas come true at the Toy Run Meanwhile, Business Report reported that Britain is officially the most festive nation in the world. A study of the most Googled words from around the globe has revealed that it’s Brits who are searching for the most festive terms. According to Google’s data, which is complete to 13 December, this is the fourth year in a row that the UK has had the highest search interest in Christmas. Be it hunting for the perfect Christmas pudding recipe or finding out where the best parties are, Brits seemingly can’t get enough of the most wonderful time of the year. As you'd expect, searches for festive terms grows over the course of the year, starting to drastically increase in October and peaking in December. After the UK in first place, Ireland takes the second spot, followed by Slovakia, Italy, the Czech Republic and the US. ALSO READ: The country that's most obsessed with Christmas - BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE