“In 2016, the tournament’s total direct impact on city’s economy was R432 million. “And it resulted in the creation of 1 400 jobs while also showcasing Cape Town as an international destination through live global TV coverage,” De Lille said. “As Africa’s leading travel destination, we know the ripple effect by way of job creation during the events and after. “The increased spending at our attractions and across the hospitality industry are all a welcome injection into the local economy.” De Lille also said: “Cape Town is in the midst of a severe drought but this doesn’t have to affect our celebrations and spirit. Our residents are working hard with the City to save water and only use water for essential purposes. “We ask that all visitors join us on this mission and Save like a Local. We need everyone’s help to beat this drought. “Please help us save water by adhering to the restrictions, but by all means bring your best to make this year’s HSBC Cape Town Sevens a phenomenal one.” De Lille had earlier said the 2016 Cape Town leg of the Sevens World Series had been named the Best Live Sports Experience in South Africa at the Discovery Sport Industry Awards.  SA Rugby chief executive Jurie Roux said: “Victories will come and go. The thing we can judge is effort and the way they (the SA Sevens team) conduct themselves. We see it often that they are true ambassadors for this brand, this country and hopefully to the kids out in the street.  “We are at the end of the cycle in the Sevens series so we all have to re-tender to see whether we still keep up in terms of having a series in the city or in our country next year.” Blitzbokke coach Neil Powell said they were advising the visiting international teams about the city’s water 
restrictions.  “I do not think the water restrictions will have an impact on the tournament. But it is our responsibility to try and talk to the other players and other management to tell them about the water restrictions. We need to make sure that everybody is doing their bit. We need to make sure we do not waste water,” said Powell.  On training, he said the team still had “a little bit of work to do” ahead of the weekend. “We are happy with the preparation thus far. The first two days were about regenerating the guys and getting them ready for the next two days,” Powell said.  “Definitely still sore and stiff after the week on a Monday and Tuesday but we started the fitness switch (Wednesday) in the gym session and we will pick up the intensity and focus on that for the next two days.” While Springbok Sevens star Seabelo Senatla was grateful for his recent  breakthrough into Super Rugby, his main focus was on the Sevens team this weekend.  With 196 Sevens tries to his name he hopes his teammates would help him move closer to the “200 Club”. Springbok Sevens captain Philip Snyman said preparations with the team were going very well.      lonwabo.marele@inl.co.za    Facebook    Twitter   