Dear Friends The Institute for Healing of Memories is a social healing NGO that works globally. We need your help to survive and thrive. In 2018, the institute will be 20 years old which is a milestone to celebrate. We are thankful for the way we’ve been able to contribute to the transformation of people’s lives in South Africa and across the world. We believe our work has just begun in the healing of memories. We would not have survived these 20 years without great generosity from our partners and individuals who through their material support as well as their love and prayers, have walked this  journey with us, seeking to assist  thousands of people on the journey of healing. In South Africa we see much evidence of intergenerational trauma and many ways in which unhealed wounds of the past continue to infect the present. Our programme has focused on healing the wounds of history and national reconciliation. This has led us to work with, among others, prison inmates, those infected/affected by HIV/Aids, women, caregivers, interfaith groups through both workshops and community dialogues. Our Restoring Humanity work brings together groups of young people between the ages of 14 and 20 across cultural, linguistic, economic, spacial areas to engage in healing and learning journeys. As well as visiting sites of memory, workshop themes include identity formation, racism, dimensions of violence and a programme called “God has many names”. The work of healing of memories is developing across the US, in Europe and in Sri Lanka with new invitations coming in from other parts of the world. While our work everywhere has an impact, we are facing a financial crisis in 2018 with the mother ship in South Africa. This is principally because the contracts with three of our partners are coming to an end as a result of their own changes in areas of focus. We have made many new funding applications in South Africa which we hope will also bear fruit but have not yet done so. Many people have told us that their experience of healing of memories was life altering, life changing and transforming. Our invitation is that all those whose lives have been touched by our work in whatever way, would be willing to make a kind of thanks offering ideally on a regular basis. We need  R1.7 million to continue our work effectively in 2018. We realise that our friends’ ability to contribute to us is going to vary greatly from those who can give us anything from R20 a month to R1 million  a year. We would like to build up a continuous income stream from individual supporters as well as new and old partners that will give the institute an enduring and strong foundation. We are confident that with your help we will be able to reach this goal and have long-term sustainability. You can help by donating in the following ways: Online Donations: Visit our website and make an online donation by clicking on:  https://www.healing-memories.org/support.html. Direct deposits: Standard Bank, Mowbray Branch. Main Road, Mowbray, Cape Town, 7700. Branch code: 02-49-09 Account name: Institute for Healing of Memories. Account no: 075133164 (Marketlink). SWIFT code: SBZAZAJJ Cheque donations: (Cheques must be made out to: Institute for Healing of Memories.). Post: Att: Ntombomzi Magqazolo. Institute for Healing of Memories, Box 36069, Glosderry, 7702, Cape Town South Africa. Debit Orders: Please complete the debit order form and return to Ntombomzi Magqazolo ((ntombomzi@healingofmemories.co.za) We are a registered non-profit organisation. Donations are tax exempt in South Africa and the US. People in the US requiring a tax deductability certificate please mail to Healing of Memories North America 733 Third Ave, Floor 15, New York, NY 10017, USA. Please endorse cheques payable to Healing of Memories South Africa. Please consider making a bequest to the institute as part of your last will and testament. We thank you for your support. Father Michael Lapsley Canon Delene Mark Institute For Healing Of Memories