The National Education, Health and Allied Workers Union (Nehawu) will roll out a service delivery campaign to root out corruption in the public sector, the union's North West branch said on Friday. "We have noted the unbridled corruption that is taking place in the public service under the disguise of outsourcing, public-private-partnerships and privatisation.   "In response to this pandemic of corruption the union in the province will embark on a service delivery campaign," said provincial secretary Patrick Makhafane. "The campaign not only seeks to uproot corruption but also to assist our government to deliver services effectively and efficiently.   "As part of our service delivery campaign we will also embark on a provincial march against outsourcing, privatisation, and other forms of atypical work in both the public and private sectors," he said after the union's provincial executive committee meeting in Mahikeng. He said the meeting noted that ANC branches were in their final preparations for the 54th national elective conference.  "The meeting equally noted the disputes that have been raised by branches on the way to the 54th national conference.  "It is clear from these disputes that there is a grouping in the ANC that is un-ANC and hell-bent on undermining the constitution, policies and processes of the ANC in order to perpetuate their tendencies of amassing wealth at the expense of the majority of this country and against ANC policies," he said. The ANC holds its elective conference in Gauteng from December 16-20. The conference would elect new leadership for the ruling party. In North West, the provincial general council was held in Moretele to consider branch nominations as to who was the preferred leaders. Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa and former African Union Commission chairperson Dr Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma are front-runners to take the baton from President Jacob Zuma to lead the 105-year-old organisation. During its mid-term provincial general council, North West announced Dlamini-Zuma as their preferred presidential candidate. Former Bojanala regional secretary Tokyo Mataboge and 39 other approached the North West High Court, seeking the court to nullify the out of the Bojanala regional conference.  The matter would be heard in Mahikeng on December 13.  African News Agency