Cape Town - Investors in Touws River pastor David “Oompie” Cupido’s alleged Ponzi scheme have been dealt another blow in their long-awaited payout, as the payout date has come and gone, leaving thousands of investors in the dark.
Cupido promised to pay his investors by Tuesday after a group had gone to the Hawks provincial offices in Bellville, to receive written correspondence that no action was taken to freeze his accounts. On their Facebook page, 4th Power Investment announced that payments would start on December 5 and would be deposited into a special debit card. Distribution and venues for collection would be announced throughout various towns. Worcester resident Rodney Visagie said no prior communication from Cupido mentioned such a process. Read more: WATCH: Hundreds of ‘Ponzi scheme’ investors up in arms “We were told that payments would be made out and it is disappointing once again because we can’t reach him to answer. There was also no clarity as to how this process will work and these so-called religious leaders, if guilty, will have to answer for any wrongdoing,” he said. He urged investors to let the law run its course and said only Cupido was responsible, not his family and any actions could have further drawbacks for the most vulnerable of investors. Last month 800 people brought the N1 to a standstill outside the small town, following claims that the Hawks had frozen Cupido’s accounts. Also read: WATCH: Alleged ponzi scheme mastermind allowed to pay 'investors' A Worcester investor requesting her name be withheld said she had messaged Cupido on Tuesday morning and only afterwards did they post on Facebook. She said he had created expectations in the more than 12000 investors, who have now mostly lost faith as no investor had received these cards or had been paid out by on on Wednesday. Touws River resident Franswa Pietersen had said the pastor was given numerous legal options to process payouts in the past and had failed to do so. Cupido’s offices were raided last year by the Hawks. Cape Times