In an unsurprising move, the majority of KwaZulu-Natal branches of the ANC nominated Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma as their preferred candidate to lead the party in December. Announcing the results during the party’s provincial general council (PGC) at the Olive Convention Centre in Durban on Monday night, EleXions Agency director Bontle Mpakanyane said that Dlamini Zuma had been nominated by 433 branches and Cyril Ramaphosa by 193. But the province also saw a high number of abstentions: 56 for the position of president, 67 for the position of deputy president, 71 for national chairperson, 72 for the position of secretary-general, 81 for the position of deputy secretary general and 76 for the position of treasurer. Keeping to the Dlamini Zuma slate, the province voted for David Mabuza as deputy president (434); Nathi Mthethwa as national chairperson (358); Ace Magashule as secretary-general (410); Jessie Duarte as deputy secretary-general (357); and Nomvula Mokonyane as treasurer-general, although Maite Nkoana-Mashabane was slated for the position of treasurer-general. As for Ramaphosa’s slate, Lindiwe Sisulu received 68 nominations for deputy president, Zweli Mkhize 59 and Naledi Pandor – Ramaphosa’s preferred deputy – received 53.  Former KZN ANC chairman and premier Senzo Mchunu received 192 nominations for secretary-general. Limpopo had thrown its weight behind Ramaphosa earlier in the day and with KZN having announced its candidates, all provinces have now concluded their PGCs and delegates are ready to head to the national conference at Nasrec in just under two weeks' time, where voting will again take place. The deputy president now sits on 1 865 nominations, opposed to the 1 437 garnered by the former African Union Commission chairperson. Rampahosa has the support of five provinces and Dlamini Zuma four. However, Dlamini-Zuma also has the support of the ANC women’s and youth leagues, while the veteran’s league supports Ramaphosa. Provincial executive committees also vote, as do national executive committee members. Under the stewardship of chairman Sihle Zikalala, the province has not been shy in voicing its support for Dlamini Zuma. But Zikalala also told delegates earlier in the day that he would support whoever received the nod at the national conference in the interests of unity. “All members of the ANC should be the guarantors and guardians of unity in the province. We must never be tired to work for unity no matter the circumstances,” he said. Before the results were announced, Zikalala emphasised to delegates that the numbers were “just nominations” and that the actual election would be done at the national conference.  African News Agency