South African financial markets on Tuesday cheered the election of Cyril Ramaphosa as new president of the ruling African National Congress (ANC), a move expected to pave the way for an improved business environment. The ANC elected Ramaphosa as its new president on Monday evening. In all likelihood, he will also become the president of South Africa following national elections in 2019 or earlier, if President Jacob Zuma steps down before then. The rand was firmer against the dollar at 12.72 in late Johannesburg trading on Tuesday, compared to around 13.08 the previous day as investors awaited results of the vote. South African government bonds also strengthened across the yield curve. Sustained rand strength could lead to lower inflation and pave the way for interest rate cuts. "We expect markets to react positively to Ramaphosa's election as president of the ANC. As such, we would likely see a stronger rand, a stronger domestic bond market and relatively positive returns from SA Inc. stocks," said Tinyiko Ngwenya, an economist at Old Mutual Investment Group. The rand's gains, which have left it at a nine-month high against the dollar, offer South Africans a rare opportunity to save in international currencies, said Daniel Buntman, head of International Banking, Retail and Business Banking at Absa. "International saving is a ‘pro-South Africa’ choice, because savings stay here, neatly accessible along with all other accounts via an online portal," he said. "This mechanism allows South Africans to save in strong-performing currencies without negatively affecting the economy, while providing the ability to hedge against the fluctuations of a volatile rand." Ramaphosa's election as president of the ANC comes amid a crisis in confidence in both business and consumer sectors under the leadership of Zuma, who has been implicated in corruption. Zuma denies the charges. “Ramaphosa has a small window of opportunity akin to the famous ‘100 days’ to prove that he is the catalyst for change needed in government.," said George Herman, director and chief investment officer of Citadel Investment Services. "If he stumbles at any time during this embryonic period, he’ll be seen as a token rather than the strong leader needed and market sentiment will quickly turn against South Africa.” John Orford, portfolio manager at Old Mutual Investment Group, said while Ramaphosa's election was potentially an important turning point for South Africa, considerable uncertainty remained. This, he said, was because Ramaphosa would not be president of the country unless Zuma stepped down early ahead of the next general election in 2019, and thus his immediate ability to influence policy was uncertain. Orford warned that South Africa, whose credit rating has been relegated to "junk" status by Fitch and S&P Global, could face another downgrade from Moody's, triggering an outflow of capital from South Africa's bond market and putting pressure on yields and the rand. "We suggest that investors stay calm and stay invested indpwm the long term and know that they are invested with a company that has robust well-diversified portfolios that can weather the volatility likely to surround any potential downgrade and the February Budget," Orford said.  "Our portfolios have delivered good real returns over many years and through many investment cycles. We expect them to continue doing so in the future." African News Agency (ANA)