Now, says a single mother, she has to cough up R18 000 to have her daughter’s report issued to her because of outstanding fees. Tracy Gore said after her daughter’s sponsor, who was liable for fees to Summit House Gardens, disappeared fundraising efforts were initiated but “it wasn’t enough”. “I have been scurrying to scrape together the outstanding fees. Her report is now being withheld and this is hindering us from applying to other schools,” she said. Gore said her daughter, in Grade 8, was enrolled at the school after a sponsor was secured to pay fees of R47 000. “All other communication is done by the school directly with the sponsor. I was obviously shocked when during the second term I heard the fees were in arrears. “Due to the fees being in arrears, my daughter was suspended and I had to pay that money. Since then I have tried to get hold of the sponsor but my calls have gone unanswered.  "I eventually held fundraisers and crowdfunding that could cover R25 000 of her fees,” she said. According to Gore, the deadline for the final payment has already passed and now they are unsure if her daughter will be in a school next year. “I have looked at other schools, including the public schools closest to our home, but even those are already full. They cannot accommodate my daughter and she is a bright child who worked so hard. “This is the worst possible position to be in,” a despondent Gore said. Summit House spokesperson Sandra Sowray confirmed the permanent shutdown but would not comment on  why Gore’s daughter’s report was being withheld. “Summit Education confirms that, following an exhaustive review of operations and finances, it has begun a process that will culminate in the closure of its Gardens campus,” Sowray said. The Summit House board said: “Under the original funding arrangements it was anticipated that the school would become self-funding by the end of 2017.  “Unfortunately, there is no possibility that this will be achieved by the end of the year, or even in the foreseeable future.  “A number of factors influenced this assessment including current and forecasted pupil numbers and the escalating cost of the Gardens site.” Sowray said an “unavoidable retrenchment process” was part of the shutdown. If you would like to donate to Gore’s fundraising efforts, visit https://www.backabuddy.co.za/charity/profile/girl-school   chevon.booysen@inl.co.za 