There was not a road along the coast that was not 
congested. Tragedy struck when a 34-year-old  Athlone father drowned while trying to rescue his 10-year-old son from the surf below Crystal Pools, between Gordon’s Bay and Kogel Bay. NSRI said the man and his son were fishing from rocks when the child was swept into the surf by waves and his father jumped in to help, but both got into difficulty. “The child was rescued and seven minutes later the dad was spotted and he was rescued onto the sea rescue craft where NSRI medics initiated CPR efforts.  ‘‘Despite extensive CPR efforts and after all efforts to resuscitate the dad were exhausted on the scene, the 34-year-old man was declared deceased.’’ the NSRI said. In another incident, police have opened an inquest after a body of a 63-year-old Athlone resident was found floating in Soetwater.  “Cape Medical Response paramedics assisted by NSRI medics conducted extensive CPR efforts but sadly despite extensive CPR efforts and after all efforts to resuscitate the 63 year old man, from Athlone, were exhausted on the scene the man was declared deceased,” said the NSRI.  The City’s director for safety and security, Richard Bosman, said by midday there were about 5000 people at Strandfontein Pavilion; 5000 at Mnandi Beach; 5000 at St James Beach; and 3000 at Kalk Bay. At Sea Point Pavilion about 4000 people queued before 10am, even though only 1500  were allowed in at a time. “People either queued and waited or left to go to the beach,” Bosman said. The Sea Point swimming pool uses seawater and is one of 12 municipal swimming pools open during the peak summer season.  Three children were reported missing in Kalk Bay, 28 in Muizenberg, five in Strandfontein, one in Big Bay and six in Strand. They were all reunited with their families, according to the City. Along the West Coast, Traffic chief Kenny Africa said the R27 was heavily congested throughout the day as cars streamed to enter the West Coast National Park. Officers were also there to regulate traffic. SANParks spokesperson Merle Collins said by midday Boulders Beach in Simon’s Town was full and had to be closed to others who wanted to enter; the Cape Point picnic site was full; the parking lot at Cape Point lighthouse was full and people had to park at Rooikrans and use the shuttle service. Table Mountain was also busy, Collins said. Mayoral committee member for safety and security and for social services JP Smith had previously said that the metro police, law enforcement and traffic services departments would be deployed across the metropole to ensure that this weekend and the remainder of the festive season was safe for all. The City also increased the number of lifeguards on its beaches. Police increased their presence on routes leading to the city’s beaches in anticipation of thousands of locals and visitors, said police spokesperson Novela Potelwa. “Roadblocks, vehicle checkpoints and stop-and-searches will be mounted at strategic positions along main routes in an effort to ensure the safety of everyone. Beachgoers are urged to look after children and enjoy themselves responsibly,” Potelwa said. The 300 newly trained police constables who graduated from the Bishop Lavis police 
academy were also deployed. “Police officials on foot, horseback, on motorcycles and in vehicles will be on hand to ensure everyone is safe. Those who commit offences will be dealt with accordingly,” Potelwa said.   francesca.villette@inl.co.za 