CAPE TOWN - The average age of a gamer, according to reports is 35. So video games are not just enjoyed by small children but also teenagers and adults. Also read: Watch: 10 free browser games you should try out Gaming is another way that people tend to relax during their free time or to just bond with friends and family. Here is a list of popular games you can get this December: 1. Super Mario Odyssey   An installment in the Super Mario series, Super Mario Odyssey is a 3D platform-adventure video game. The story follows Mario and Cappy, a spirit that possesses Mario's hat and allows him to take control of other characters and objects. As usual, they set on a journey across various worlds to save Princess Peach from his nemesis, Bowser. Available on Nintendo Switch Price: R799 Get it on Loot.co.za and Takealot 2. Xenoblade Chronicles 2   Xenoblade Chronicles 2 is an action role-playing game designed as a spiritual successor to both Xenoblade Chronicles X for Wii U and Xenoblade for Wii. As in those games, you'll play as a band of young heroes exploring an exotic landscape full of beasts to slay, and you'll have plenty of side quests to discover. Combat in the Xenoblade series is real-time and relies on combat skills with special attack properties. This single-player game promises to be a lengthy open-world campaign, but it does not relate directly to the story of the previous Xenoblade games. Available on: Nintendo Switch Price: R878 (Loot.co.za) 3. Destiny 2   The first expansion for Destiny 2, Curse of Osiris will add a whole new location, Mercury, to the game and will continue the events of the story. New and more powerful equipment will be added to go along with the level and power cap increases. The max character level will now stand at 35, while the power level will be raised to 330. Destiny 2: Curse of Osiris available on PS4, Xbox One and PC.  4. Resident Evil 7: Gold Edition   Resident Evil 7 originally released in January and is a survival horror video game. A new feature added allows you to play from a first-person point of view, which will increase your ability to become fully absorbed says CapCom, the developers of the game. Resident Evil 7's expansions feature protagonists other than Ethan, including Chris Redfield in the not a hero side story campaign. End of Zoe is the latest addition and takes place after the events of the main game. Banned Footage Vol. 1 and 2, released earlier in the year, will also be included in this edition. You can also play the game with PlayStation VR. Available on PS4, Xbox One and  PC. Price: R493- R599 Find it on Loot.co.za. 5. Call of Duty: WW2   Call of Duty returns to its original World War II setting. It features a single-player campaign focussing on Private Ronald 'Red' Daniels, a young American soldier thrown into combat for the first time. The multiplayer and competitive action fans expect of CoD, this could be a return to form for the series. And if you just want to shoot at a load of Nazis, the new 'Nazi Zombies' mode set in an alternate universe where the Third Reich experiments with communicating with the dead. Available on PC, PS4, Xbox One, PC Price: R790- R975 (Depending on your console) Available on Loot. 6. Forza Motorsport 7   Awarded the best sports/motorsport game at the Game Awards 2017, Experience the exhilarating thrill of competitive racing. The game features 4K resolution in HDR. You have a wide selection of 700 Forzavista™ cars, including Ferrari, Porsche, and Lamborghini. Race at 30 different famous environments. You can also personalise the appearance with a wide variety of driver gear collection. Available on Xbox One and Windows 10 Price: R894 - R999 Available at Loot.co.za, Takealot, Dionwired and Incredible Connection. 7.Injustice 2   If you're a fan or know anyone who loves superheroes, fighting games or both then this game is right up your alley. The game also has a solo campaign which features Brainiac, Batman and an evil Superman. There's also the addictive gear system, which lets you unlock all kinds of cool treasure. You also have the ability to customise your very own version of your favorite hero or villain. It also has plenty of online and offline modes. Get it on, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Android, iOS, Microsoft Windows Price: R599- R878 Available at Loot.co.za and Takealot 8. Legend of Zelda: Breathe of the Wild   The Legend of Zelda is a high-fantasy action-adventure video game. The game starts with Link awakening from a 10-year slumber with no memories and no kingdom. Now the hero, which is you the player must explore a vast and dangerous land and regain his memories.  The game offers lots of mystery as you need to unlock many items in order to survive. You can travel by land, air and sea. Available on Nintendo Switch and Wii. Price: R 949 - R999 Available at Incredible Connection, Loot.za and Dionwired. 9. Fifa 2018   FIFA returns with its annual update to every soccer fans favourite sports game. In Fifa 18 passing has improved, close control is said to be better and pacing now plays a factor. Players also no longer suffer from a claymation effect, looking the best they ever have. The manager mode has a new feature which allows you during the transfer window to engage in real-time transfer negotiations with other managers. The Journey’s second season Hunter’s Return is a continuation of the first FIFA story mode. Alex Hunter is back and will begin his next chapter with your chosen club. You can now customise Alex, gearing him up in sports gear and can change his haircut. Available on PS4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, PS3, Xbox 360 and PC Price: R799- R999 Available at CNA, Dionwired, Makro, Incredible Connection, Loot.co.za and Takealot. 10. Tekken 7   According to reports, Tekken 7 was the most tweeted about game in 2017. Marking the 20th anniversary of the game it features  story-driven cinematic battles and intense duels that can be enjoyed with friends and rivals All of the returning cast members have their signature moves and a few new ones are also introduced. Available on PS4, Xbox One and Steam Price: R699 - R999 Available at Loot.co.za, Takealot and Dionwired. Also read: Video games may improve posture in autistic kids - BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE