Residents of Thabo Mbeki informal settlement near Philippi marched to the Civic Centre to demand answers about why the live wires that they said killed a 5- and a 6-year-old boy were left unchecked. The residents and family of cousins Luniko Madolo, 5, and Lindani, 6, want the City to take responsibility for the boys’ deaths. They want the officials to go back to the area and repair the electricity poles. Both boys were declared dead at the scene on November1.  The City says the incident is being investigated by the Department of Labour, and that it is in the process of appointing an independent professional expert to investigate the alleged electrocution.  According to community leader Buzwe Kali, the boys were electrocuted by a live wire near their home.  He said a week before the boys' deaths the City had sent electricians to repair the community’s street lights, which had not worked effectively for more than three years.  Kali said the electricians “left the live wires exposed”.  Residents said the boys were playing barefoot with their friends in the alleys between shacks in the informal settlement when they made contact with the wires. “It is clear that these live wires sent a current down the cable wire meant to anchor the pole,” said Kali. He said the wiring should have been covered immediately when the electricians had finished their repairs. The boys' aunt, Viwe Madolo, 27, said the City needed to electrify the area urgently so that no other children died. “The City needs to monitor their work, otherwise other children will die in the same trap,” said Madolo. Mbuyisela Mdequka, who was one of the first people at the scene, said he was sitting in the shade outside his home and rushed to the scene when he heard the children’s cries. He found the boys lying on the ground, holding hands. Police spokesperson Frederick van Wyk said the matter was still under investigation, and the forensic report was still outstanding. Mayco member for Area South Eddie Andrews said after the City received reports of the electrocution the electricity department staff inspected the pole and stray wire. “At the top of the pole two conductors supplying the street light were observed to have damaged insulation, causing the live conductors to make contact with the metal ‘pigtail’ bolt used to anchor the stay-wire to the pole, which in turn could have caused the stay wire to carry an electric current.  “The damage to the insulation is consistent with the damage done by vandals to facilitate an illegal electricity connection to reticulation infrastructure,” said Andrews. “A  further observation made was that the copper earth wire connecting the earth spike to the top exposed metal parts was missing, and this can only be attributed to copper theft, which is rife in the area.”