Namawa is one of the beneficiaries who will be assisted by the Bambini Dream Foundation’s Wonderlands fund-raiser dinner and auction at the end of this week. The fund-raiser aims to raise R400000 to assist underprivileged youth with their higher education goals and help buy a minibus taxi for the foundation. It’s the brainchild of Tarryn Tomlinson, a life coach and inspirational speaker. The foundation teaches young dreamers to express themselves in creative ways using music and art therapy. It equips them with cognitive and social skills. Namawa grew up in Harare, Zimbabwe. “That is where I did my primary education and part of my high school. I came to South Africa in 2014 in search of green pastures. Life was pretty tough in Zimbabwe so I decided to come to South Africa and live with my sister." Relocating to Imizamo Yethu, Namawa said she faced challenges at school when she became a leader. “My main challenge was language, but I managed to learn isiXhosa within a year so that I would be able to communicate with the people I was leading. “During my schooling I had to motivate myself. I had a clear picture that I want to be a somebody. My situation kept me going, it would give me energy when I got tired. “I looked at how my mom was struggling and told myself 'I don’t want her to struggle for the rest of her life and I myself don’t want to struggle as well'. I had to work hard, become a role model to many.” Namawa has created an organisation called Tinevimbo, to support children from poor backgrounds in Zimbabwe by providing school uniforms, socks, shoes, other clothes and stationery. She is now studying psychology at Cornerstone Institute, but still needs funding to complete her studies. “I have a passion for learning how the human mind works, why people behave the way they do when they are in certain situations. "I believe in order for us to either make a difference or make changes in the world, we first need to understand each other,” she said. Added Tomlinson: “We cannot hope to change the levels of poverty in our country without changing impoverished mindsets and supporting youth who are excelling despite their circumstances to further their education. “A small contribution can change a life for the better; the money raised by this fund-raiser will go a long way to positively impacting the lives of the youth we support.” The event is on Friday at the Cape Town Club in Queen Victoria Street. To buy a ticket or for more information about the event, e-mail tarryntom@gmail.com. Tickets can also by bought at Quicket: http://qkt.io/1EJkLy