The rest of the victims were disqualified, including unemployed mother of six Cynthia Dubula, 51, who said: “I don’t understand why they would say I earn too much but I am unemployed and have a huge family".  "The one person who should be benefiting is me”.  Some of the residents were told their names did not appear in the compiled list. Foreign nationals were chased away from the pay points. There were 708 people whose names were rejected and told they were earning high salaries. Sassa regional manager Shivani Wahab said the SRD “was paid in cash to the victims” on March 11. “Our Sassa representatives were present in the Hout Bay area ensuring that the fire victims received the much needed assistance,” she said. Wahab had not responded to questions before going to press.  She also did not respond when alerted that some of the fire victims listed as having high salaries were allegedly unemployed and that some who received the relief were allegedly not fire victims.  Community leader Pamela Sophika said: “My heart is sore that unemployed people did not benefit.  "We knew of people who benefited from the relief but did not live there. “It’s even sad that foreign nationals did not benefit.” Resident Mazizini Mbembe, 48, said he was turned away when he went to collect the relief. “A thorough investigation is needed so that we may know what is really happening. We have many questions but no answers,” he said. Meanwhile some of the fire victims who were accommodated on a sportsfield immediately after the fire have been told to vacate the wendy houses provided by the city council, because the owner wants the land back. “They were given until Friday (today) to take their belongings off the sportsfield," said Sophika.  "They will be provided sites within the community of Imizamo Yethu.” Mayoral committee member for informal settlements Xanthea Limberg said the 362 residents at the sportsfield were living in “potentially dangerous conditions” while the city council was looking for alternative land.  “The intention always was to relocate them to better temporary sites in order to provide improved services and better living conditions while the super-blocking process in Imizamo Yethu is under way,” she said.