The officer was shot on the corner of Nita and Rita roads in Tafelsig, Mitchells Plain, while conducting crime prevention duties on Tuesday night.  He was rushed to hospital in a serious condition Police said their pursuit of the attacker resulted in his arrest not long after the incident.  “The weapon used, an Astra revolver, was also confiscated. Once charged, the suspect is due to make a court appearance in Mitchells Plain on a charge of attempted murder,” said police spokesperson Andre Traut.  “An attack on a police officer will not be taken lightly and we will pursue every avenue to apprehend and convict the perpetrator. "This is what a 37-year-old suspect learnt after he made the bold decision to shoot and wound a police officer,” he said.  Mkongi said: “I’ve instructed all generals of the police to make sure that we use every power we have under the constitution to make sure that this dog will never go out of prison. ‘‘We must send a powerful message to all criminals out there to understand that killing of a police officer is a declaration of war against the state.” This was as Naydene Hill, Magret van Wyk, Thobingcebo Mditsane, Mateo Nero, and a minor who can not be named were all sentenced in the Western Cape High Court yesterday for the hijacking and murder of a Malmesbury warrant officer, Milnerton Dumas.  Dumas had gone missing on Christmas Eve last year.  It was reported Dumas had allegedly given two women a lift who claimed to be stranded. Dumas was then dragged, smothered and strangled to death. In October, Mzwondeleli Dasheka, 32, admitted he was asked to find a buyer for Dumas’s car.  He was sentenced to three year’s imprisonment after pleading guilty. Police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana said yesterday police welcomed the sentences. “The Western Cape High Court handed down sentencing to (the minor), he was found guilty of robbery aggravated, and in terms of Section 76 (1)(2) Child Justice Act (he will be) detained in a youth centre for 5 years.   "The court made a ruling that he undergo various programmes for his rehabilitation. In addition, he was sentenced to 3 years imprisonment suspended for 5 years.  ‘‘Upon release after five years, the accused will be 20 years old and then only will the suspended sentence start,”  Rwexana said. Hill was found guilty of  aggravated robbery and sentenced to 12 years imprisonment. Van Wyk was found guilty of the same and also sentenced to 12 years. Mditsane and Nero were sentenced to life  in prison for murder.    Facebook    Twitter 