Enviro Wildfire are investigating the spate of fires that had been set over the past month in the cleared sections of the Tokai Forest,  Enviro Wildfire Services investigator Rob Erasmus said. Good progress has been made in the investigation, he said, adding that the money had been offered for information that resulted in a successful prosecution. Erasmus appealed to the public to be vigilant regarding suspicious activities. “We have had a total of 11 fires in the cleared sections of the Tokai Forest. There is no doubt that it is malicious,” he said. Erasmus also urged the public to be cautious with any open flame as weather conditions would be hot, dry and windy over the summer months. Working on Fire (WoF) spokesperson Lauren Howard said that since the start of the fire season on December1, more than 500 WoF firefighters as well as fire-fighting aircraft had been actively assisting partners, including the Southern Cape Fire Protection Association (FPA), CapeNature, provincial Disaster Management Centre, Greater Overberg FPA, Eden District Municipality, the City of Cape Town Fire and Rescue, and the Greater Cederberg FPA, in suppressing 46 fires across the province. “WoF, the Department of Environmental Affairs’ programme to help fight veld and forest fires, has been hard at work throughout the past week as its firefighters and pilots were busy fighting fires across the province,” Howard said. Affected areas include Grabouw, Botrivier, Keurbooms, Caledon, Ladismith, Struisbaai, Kromko, George, Bainskloof, Bergrivier, Rietvlei, Macassar Dunes, Tokai Orpen Road, Du Toitskloof Pass and Hout Bay. “We urge communities to be more vigilant during this fire season and not to start unnecessary fires, particularly on dry days. People must also ensure they have the contact details of their local fire authorities at hand should there be a fire emergency,” she said. Information can be sent to Enviro Wildfire Services via e-mail to enviro@absamail.co.za Information will be treated as confidential.