The 1996 film, starring Madonna as Evita, catapulted the story beyond the realm of theatre-goers into the larger public eye - often becoming a yardstick for comparison even for those stage shows. There’s no doubt that the latest production of Evita, which comes to the Artscape Opera after a lengthy run at Joburg’s Montecasino, is a theatrical spectacle performed on a grand scale. Beautifully choreographed, Hal Prince’s production makes clever use of an overhead screen to show movie clips of the action at the time and this is how it opens with the Requiem for Evita, Eva Peron, the woman who captured the hearts and souls of thousands of Argentinians. The Artscape Theatre is an ideal venue and the stage sets are highly impressive; seen against the background of the projected images making for mesmerising viewing. But and there is a but After interviewing lead actress Emma Kingston a few days prior to the debut Cape Town performance, I had been impressed with her self-assuredness in performing the role of Evita. It was interesting to hear of her roots from her mother’s side of the family in Argentina and to listen to her knowledge of, and affinity for, the country with which she shares a common bond with Eva. Even coming off the run at Montecasino, where there had been some not-so-warm responses to her performance, I was filled with hope that work had been done on tweaking those bumpy edges. But, as she launched into her first song, there was a sense of disappointment which continued for most of the duration of the show, even after interval. Kingston seems to have some issues with her voice and, as lead actress, sadly proved the weakest link - which was evidenced in the mixed applause at curtain call. So much potential and it's hard to understand what’s afoot - key songs started off so well and then morphed into over-projected interpretations from I’d Be Surprisingly Good for You, the iconic Don’t Cry For Me Argentina and You Must Love, where one was so expectant and then deflated by over-delivery That said, let’s move on Anton Luitingh (also resident director) made a superb impression as Magaldi, Eva’s first boyfriend, with a great repertoire of soulful songs, delivered with panache and style. Jonathan Roxmouth as Che, who weaves the story together, alternating between witticisms, moving melodies and forceful commentaries, for the most part takes up his part manfully, as he relates the rise and fall of Argentina’s first lady. As Juan Peron, Robert Finlayson plays the powerful leader astutely, displaying the character of the man who served as president three times in the country’s history with perception and sensitivity, showing his strengths and his weaknesses. His spurned mistress, played by Isabella Jane, who is forced to exit the bedroom to be replaced by Eva, turned out to be the star of the show; on stage for all too short a time. She has a wonderful voice and she sang Another Suitcase In Another Hall in such honeyed and mellifluous tones that it was a pure joy to experience. The actors are all backed by a strong ensemble, all demonstrating strong talents as they dance and sing, move sets on and off stage and portray the crowds who both adored and mourned Evita, as well as showing their despondency at the disintegration of the once-prosperous country. Of note was And The Money Kept Rolling In And Out. The boisterous song showed how the shambolic accountancy of the Eva Peron Foundation offered little benefit to the nation's economy but elevated Eva to near-goddess status in the eyes of some, including children. And a group of little ones sang the beautiful Santa Evita in a sacramentally magnificent rendition. So, yes, this large-scale production has many high moments - some a pure delight to watch. The detractions notwithstanding, this new interpretation of Evita with its many well-loved songs and fabulous action on stage, great choreography and talented cast is worth seeing. *  Pieter Toerien and David Ian present Evita at the Artscape Opera House until January 7 with lyrics by Tim Rice and music by Andrew Lloyd Webber. Choreographed by Larry Fuller and directed by Hal Prince. Booking at Computicket.