The CCID said the three most prominent types of crime in the city were theft out of vehicles (often the result of remote jamming), pickpocketing and ATM fraud.  CCID spokesperson Carola Koblitz said: “Our biggest concern at this time of year is people here on holiday.  “They are in festive mood and often not aware of, or willing to think about, the possibility that they could become victims of crime, and therefore may not be aware that their behaviour can open them up to this.”  Koblitz added that criminals were also aware that people had more money to spend at this time of year.  “The most important thing is for the public to be aware at all times: be sensible and be responsible. Do not create an opportunity for a crime to occur,” she said.  Practical advice included always to be aware of who is around you and not allow people to distract you.  Koblitz said: “Don’t flash your cash, jewellery, wallet or cellphone and don’t leave valuables in your car or anything lying on your seat that may tempt a thief to break a window. “Prevent yourself from being a victim of remote jamming by physically checking that your car is locked before you walk away.”  She said it was important to be vigilant when using ATMs and not to allow anyone to distract you or offer to help you. Party-goers were warned not to accept open drinks from anyone or leave with someone they had just met.  “Stay with your group when club hopping, stay on ‘the beaten track’ within well-lit paths, avoid short 
cuts, and drink responsibly,” said Koblitz.  The MMC for Safety, Security and Social Services, JP Smith, said: “We encourage the public to be aware of their surroundings at all times and to be vigilant.”  He said the City would work closely with a number of other role players like the SAPS, CCID and Cape Town Tourism on safety in the CBD and other public places during the festive season. Meanwhile, Table Mountain National Park (TMNP) have also provided safety tips for visitors.  They recommend not hiking or cycling alone.  “Go in groups of four or more but no more than 10, and avoid carrying valuables as far as possible,” said spokesperson Merle Collins.  “If confronted by suspects, do not resist. And do not cycle or hike before 8am or after 6pm.”  Emergency numbers for TMNP Control are 086 1106 417/ SAPS 10111