Cape Town - A great white shark was tracked for nearly 2km by the Shark Spotter drone,close to shore in Muizenberg last week. The award-winning shark safety organisation has, with use of the innovative technology, proven effective at improving beach safety. Two licensed drone pilots operate at the Fish Hoek and Muizenberg beaches. Cape Town - Shark Spotters chief executive Sarah Waries: “Every year we see a significant increase in shark sightings in spring and summer, which coincides with school holidays and the period when our beaches are busiest with water users.  During this time, sharks change their diet from their winter feeding pattern of hunting seals around Seal Island, and generally move inshore where they search along the coastline for prey such as yellow-tail, smaller sharks and rays," Seferino (Seffie) Gelderblom and Ghaliep Mohammed were sponsored by weFix, the nationwide smart device and drone repair specialists, to complete their official drone training and receive their Remote Pilot's Licence, allowing them to fly drones at the beach and providing access way beyond the limited views afforded to them simply by binoculars and high-lying vantage points.    Ghaliep said: "Without their assistance, and my family and friends, this wouldn't have been easy because support is crucial in tough times - my hard work paid off with new qualification and skill. I'm excited by what I am now doing for Shark Spotters, locals and tourists visiting our beaches." Since Shark Spotters began in 2004, they have recorded over 2,150 shark sightings at eight operating beaches, averaging approximately 170 shark sightings per year. “The drones have proved especially useful over the last 12 months in confirming the species when we have a shark sighting as they allow us to differentiate between white sharks and bronze whaler sharks. The drones do not replace our land-based spotters who do a great job, but rather enhance our spotting ability, giving us two extra sets of eyes that can basically take us exactly where we need to be over the water.”said Warries. The drones are also being used to assist with other safety issues on the beach, including crime prevention and lifesaving activities. "We are delighted by the progress made by Seffie and Ghaliep. The drone makes a significant difference, allowing Shark Spotters to get closer to the shark, as far out as 500m out to sea, recording data which is enhancing our knowledge of the species in the area, and is highly valuable over the long term," said weFix chief executive Alex Fourie.