Johannesburg - President Jacob Zuma, along with 17 members of his Cabinet, on Monday scored poorly on the Democratic Alliance's (DA) 2017 Government report card.  The report card was released by DA leader Mmusi Maimane at the Union Buildings in Pretoria and provides overview of the performance of the president, deputy president, all 35 ministers and their respective departments. He was joined by DA National Spokesperson Refiloe Nt’sekhe.  Presenting the report card, Maimane reflected on the past year and how the ANC-led government fared during their year.  "2017 will go down in history as one of the most disconcerting years in our young democracy, as the ANC-led national government stooped to new lows in their abuse of power, excessive looting, and shameless execution of state capture without a hint of restraint.  "With ever-increasing unemployment, half of South Africans living in poverty, a social grants crisis, a 12th cabinet reshuffle, the horrifying Esidimeni tragedy, and the downgrading of our economy to “junk status”, the ANC has collapsed our country and its economy. This, Maimane added, was compounded by the emergence of the “Gupta Leaks”, which provided solid evidence of the African National Congress’s (ANC) mafia shadow state that had been created to serve their interests and to accumulate huge amounts of wealth for themselves.  "The promise of true freedom is undermined by the ANC at every juncture, and if there was any doubt that the ANC was unfit to lead our country, 2017 showed us that." Maimane went on to explain how the grading for the score card was carried out, saying Zuma, his deputy Cyril Ramaphosa as well as each minister were scored on a scale for “A” to “F”.  “A” is the highest score achievable while “F” is the lowest. Zuma, Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini, Public Enterprises Minister Lynne Brown, Mineral Resources Minister Mosebenzi Zwane, Energy Minister David Mahlobo as well as Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga, among others, score an F on the score card.  Meanwhile, Ramaphosa, Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba, Police Minister Fikile Mbalula, International Relations & Cooperation Minister Maite Nkoana-Mashabane and State Security Minister Bongani Bongo all scored E.  The highest scoring ministers were Economic Development Minister Ebrahim Patel and Science & Technology Minister Naledi Pandor who both scored a C. Scores for the remainder of government departments are:  Agriculture, Forestry & Fisheries: Senzeni Zokwana (F) Arts & Culture: Nathi Mthethwa (F) Communications: Mmamoloko Kubayi (F) Cooperative Governance & Traditional Affairs: Des Van Rooyen (E) Defence & Military Veterans: Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula (D) Environmental Affairs: Edna Molewa (E) Health: Aaron Motsoaledi (F) Higher Education & Training: Hlengiwe Mkhize (F) Home Affairs: Ayanda Dlodlo (E) Justice & Constitutional Development: Michael Masutha (F) Labour: Mildred Oliphant (F) 
Presidency: Jeff Radebe (D) Public Service and Administration: Faith Muthambi (F) Public Works: Nathi Nhleko (F) Rural Development & Land Reform: Gugile Nkwinti (F) Small Business Development: Lindiwe Zulu (E) Sport & Recreation: Thulas Nxesi (D) Telecommunications and Postal Services: Siyabonga Cwele (E) Tourism: Tokozile Xasa (D) Trade & Industry: Rob Davies (E) Transport: Joe Maswanganyi (E) Water & Sanitation: Nomvula Mokonyane (F) Women in the Presidency: Susan Shabangu (F)  IOL