The protest followed a 16 Days of Activism event hosted by Women on Farms Project with officials from the Department of Justice, Worcester police and health services present. Project director Colette Solomons said that violence against women on farms had always been high. “(Saturday’s) event was about giving rural and farm women access to justice and with that the opportunity to engage officials directly. The women were given a platform to speak to these different spheres of the justice system, to speak about their struggles to get justice,” said Solomons. She said the women represented at the event yesterday demanded assurance from the officials if they fell victim to gender-based violence in rural areas and farms that they would be justly treated. While the officials could provide detailed explanations of how procedures worked, Solomons said, the rural and farm women told their stories of how far removed the reality of justice was for them. She said the women had also used poetry and dance to express their personal stories of rape and violence perpetrated by partners, family members or neighbours. Following the engagement the women marched through the streets of Worcester to bring attention to the scourge of gender-based violence. The protesters marched to the Worcester Magistrate's Court and police station, handing over memorandums to demand adequate service from reporting the offence, receiving a protection order to the court appearance, and calling for more training for police officers regarding their treatment of victims of rape and gender-based violence. Women on Farms' women’s health and empowerment programme co-ordinator, Rebecca Mort, said the discussions included information on health and legal services for rural women.  “The women are demanding that there be fully equipped sexual offences courts established within rural areas.  "While there are courts at the Paarl and Worcester regional courts, there is a real need for more of these courts throughout rural areas.”   dominic.adriaanse@inl.co.za 