Various local  interfaith organisations have joined world leaders in condemning US President Donald Trump’s recent announcement declaring Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. The groups have planned a march to Parliament today to highlight their anger.  They will also be protesting against Trump’s announcement of US plans to move its embassy in Tel Aviv to Jerusalem, where it intends constructing a new embassy building. Last week’s announcement by Trump to move the American embassy to Jerusalem in violation of international law has caused international outrage and many in South Africa have followed suit. Ahead of the ANC’s 54th National Conference, in Gauteng from Saturday to next Wednesday, a July proposal for the possible downgrading, or complete closure, of the South African embassy in Israel is to be discussed as part of the ANC’s future international policy. The organisations also demand that the South African government downgrade its embassy in Tel Aviv. Today’s march has been organised by the Muslim Judicial Council (MJC) and Al-Quds Foundation. In a joint statement, the groups said: “This is not a Muslim/Jewish issue.  "This is a human rights issue.  ‘‘The PSC (Palestine Solidarity Campaign) is a secular organisation whose members are Jews, Muslims, Christians and people of no faith.  "We call upon the South African government to acknowledge the debt we in South Africa owe the international community for our liberation.  ‘‘We call on our government to immediately sever diplomatic relations with the apartheid state of Israel.” They want the government to take the lead at the UN for a mandatory arms embargo on weapons exports to Israel plus a ban on weapons imports from Israel. “We also call on Capetonians of all communities to join the march (today) to express rejection of President Trump’s use of apartheid Israel to do America’s 'dirty work' of destabilising the world, including Africa, in pursuit of US financial and military hegemony.” The march will be from District Six to Parliament, starting at 11am.    raphael.wolf@inl.co.za 