Johannesburg - As the festive season approaches, the South African Cabinet on Thursday cautioned the travelling public to exercise great caution on the roads, and for parents and guardians to keep a close eye on children. “Cabinet wishes all South Africans a joyous and safe festive season. We call on those who will be travelling to ensure their vehicles are roadworthy. All road users, drivers and pedestrians must abide by the rules of the road,” Communications Minister Mmamoloko Kubayi-Ngubane said at a press briefing in Pretoria. “The Minister of Transport, Mr Joe Maswanganyi, launched the Arrive Alive campaign on the 5 December in Bela-Bela, Limpopo. The SAPS [South African Police Service] is implementing its nationwide campaign for a safer festive season and all have a responsibility to support the SAPS by upholding the law and behaving responsibly.” She said the department of home affairs will announce the 2017/18 festive season plans for the South African border environment. This, Kubayi-Ngubane said, is for smooth facilitation and enhanced management of movement of people and goods in and out of South Africa during this peak period. “We also appeal to parents and guardians not to leave children unattended as we are duty-bound to take care of our children,” she said. The minister said Cabinet, at its last meeting of the year, was pleased that the 2017 National Senior Certificate examinations (matric) “proceeded without major incidents” and wished the candidates well as they await their results. Regarding Cabinet decisions, Kubayi-Ngubane said the National Tourism Sector Strategy (NTSS) 2016-2026 has been approved for implementation. The NTSS is anchored on five strategic pillars, namely marketing, facilitation of ease of access for tourists, enhance visitor experience, destination management and broad-based benefits. The full document is available on the Department of Tourism’s website: www.tourism.gov.za. “Cabinet approved the framework for the establishment of a National Broadband Network Company. It will be formed out of the merger of Sentech and Broadband Infraco. This will facilitate the roll-out of the interdependent elements in a coordinated manner and create a national broadband champion,” she said. “Cabinet approved measures to strengthen the management of discipline of public servants in relation to officials conducting business with organs of state. It gives effect to the Public Service Regulations 2016, which prohibits public servants from conducting business with the State.   “From 1 March, National Treasury, supported by the Department of Public Service and Administration (DPSA), will monitor all new registrations on the online Central Supplier Database against the Persal System.” She revealed that Cabinet has approved the New Performance Management and Development System for Heads of Department, which accurately reflects the link between individual and organisational performance. It comes into effect on 1 April 2018. – African News Agency (ANA)