Her creator, Maite Makgoba, had to supply more dolls to the outlets which stocked her in the past fortnight. Makgoba, a qualified linguist who studied at the Tshwane University of Technology and works for the SA National Defence Force, said it had been tough breaking into the market in the country as there were no African kiddies characters in any retail stores until now.  Makgoba said the character sold like hot cakes this holiday season and the demand was still growing. Africa’s first kiddies character was in the top 80 out of 800 African start-ups as the pioneer in the African kiddies market by 22 on Sloane.  This is the largest start-up campus in Africa which offers innovative small- and medium-sized enterprises a complete turnkey solution to scale, from the initial idea all the way to commercialisation, funding opportunities and access to markets. Makgoba said making it to the top 80 was a wonderful achievement.  “We believe that the people who make it there are shapers of the continent, and being regarded among the great was an honour.” Makgoba said Momppy was certainly winning little girls’ hearts and birthday celebrations were no longer themed with foreign characters, but was all things Momppy.  She said Momppy was doing well and she was extremely happy with the growth and how the character was developing. Makgoba, founder of Childish Trading & Manufacturing and the entrepreneur behind the African doll, said Momppy was not the typical little princess who lived in a castle waiting to be saved.  “Momppy is character that literally relates to little girls because she is young, fun and full of adventure. She does not wait for a prince to save her. She saves the day; she is not one who need a male character to ensure her place in the world. She does things by herself and is the hero of the day, hero of the magical kingdom,” she said. “Momppy rocks; she does all these (things) looking  fashionably good. This shows that a girl does not need to be tomboyish and tough for her to be a super girl hero or warrior princess;  she can do it being herself, just as cute and beautiful.”