Today is the deadline for De Lille to provide the party with reasons why she should not resign as mayor. “I am of the view that the ‘process’ that has been followed has been patently unfair towards me.  “My legal team will convey this to Fedex, as they have done repeatedly during the last few months,” said De Lille. She said she was focused on compiling detailed submissions to the party’s Federal Executive (Fedex) regarding the allegations in the so-called Steenhuisen report and that the thrust of her response was to deal with the merits of the allegations. “I have made no secret of the fact that I will consider legal action if the DA decides to remove me from my position as the mayor of Cape Town.  “Leading a team, we worked extremely hard to elevate the administration to its current position of being the best run in South Africa,” she said. De Lille was hopeful they’ll be able to dissuade Fedex from taking the “drastic step” of initiating a motion of no confidence in her . “If we cannot do so, I would naturally have to consider alternatives to defend my reputation of a lifetime of fighting against corruption and addressing inequality in our society,” she said. DA spokesperson Phumzile van Damme would not comment on the matter and referred queries to the party’s statement announcing De Lille’s suspension on Thursday.  Political analyst Keith Gottschalk said: “It is sad to see the end of Patricia de Lille’s career. It is clear that Patricia de Lille has alienated powerful leaders in the DA.  “Her public accusation a week or two ago that some in the DA were intent on ending her career over the spatial integration of the City earned her no favours among her peers. “De Lille’s political career has as its highlight the ‘De Lille dossier’ from whistle-blowers exposing corruption in the arms deal. So it is unexpected that there are now allegations that the mayor improperly used municipal funds for security at her home.”   In October, De Lille and safety and security mayoral committee member JP Smith were placed on special leave from all DA activities in the Cape Town Metro, after Smith questioned the shutdown by De Lille of the City’s special investigating unit headed by him.