SANDF spokesperson Siphiwe Dlamini said the South African Air Force Oryx helicopter was on its way back to the Ysterplaat Airforce Base from Touwsriver when the accident occurred. It was reported to the operations room in Ysterplaat at 1.50pm.  “The crew was send to assist a training team in the area of Touwsriver and they had completed their assignment and returning back to Air Force Base Ysterplaat when the accident happened," Dlamini said.  "The crew consisted of the pilot, co-pilot, a flight engineer and four aircraft technicians and mechanics.  "There were no fatalities or serious injuries but the pilot complained of back pain and has been taken by ambulance to Military Hospital in Cape Town.”  A team of aircraft accident investigators and a security contingent were dispatched to secure the wreckage and start with an investigation. Provincial traffic chief Kenny Africa said the road was closed and alternative routes had to be used while the clean-up operation was done.  “We closed the Du Toitskloof Pass due to a helicopter that crashed on the Worcester side of Du Toitskloof Pass. "Apparently the chopper crashed into overhead power cables,” Africa said.  ER24 spokesperson Russel Meiring said paramedics arrived to find debris from the helicopter strewn across the highway.  “Eight people were left injured this afternoon following a helicopter crash on the N1 highway Du Toitskloof between Worcester and Paarl. ER24 paramedics, along with several other services, arrived on the scene to find to find a large helicopter lying across the entire highway,” he said. Traffic authorities began to close off the road and divert traffic while paramedics began to assess the patients. One of the eight people had sustained serious injuries while seven had minor to moderate injuries, Meiring said.  “Paramedics treated the patients and provided the seriously injured with advanced life support interventions before they were transported to a nearby hospital for further treatment.”   chevon.booysen@inl.co.za        