In the midst of the 16 Days of Activism for No Violence against Women and Children, a boyfriend and an ex-boyfriend accused of killing their partners appeared in the Athlone Magistrate’s Court yesterday. The gallery was packed to capacity and some residents had to wait outside as both cases being heard in courtroom F were attended by activists, residents, friends and the ANC Women’s League.  Uyanda Mdingi, 27, of New Crossroads in Nyanga, who is charged with killing his girlfriend, Zukiswa Sigenu, by suffocating her at a home they shared for years, abandoned his bid for bail. He will wait until February 15 to allow the State to investigate its case thoroughly. The other accused, Xolisa Muller, 27, handed himself over to the Gugulethu police station on Saturday and was charged with the murder of his 27-year-old ex-girlfriend, Unathi Sabsana. Muller had allegedly shot Sabsana in front of her 10-year-old son and parents at the popular Unathi’s Takeaways, which sells fast food in New Crossroads. Her death came two days before she and Muller were expected to attend a court case in relation to a court interdict Sabsana had filed in July against him. She was killed a few days after the world marked the start of the 16 Days of Activism for No Violence Against Women and Children. Both victims have left behind children, now being taken care of by grandparents. Prosecutor Nangamso Matta told the court that Sabsana was at her home with her family when she was shot. Matta said there were “issues of pending cases and warrants (of arrest)” against Muller that were being investigated. Wearing a black top and tracksuit pants with a shaved head, Muller appeared calm and looked straight at magistrate Keith le Kleur during the proceedings. Muller was remanded until Monday for his bail application. The two murders, which shocked the community both women hailed from, brought its members together to speak out against abuse. After the shock of the murders, the parents of the two women bonded over the loss of their children and found solace from the community where they live in New Crossroads. Nokwenzeka Sigenu, mother of Zukiswa, said she learnt of Zukiswa’s death three days after she went missing and could not bear the thought of losing her. A month later, she said, she learnt of Sabsana’s death and thought she should visit the family to console them. Sigenu said it felt heartbreaking to lose a daughter, because other families were able to celebrate birthdays with their children and she and the Sabsana family would never do so again. She said when she talked to the parents of Sabsana it was heart wrenching. Before Muller handed himself over to the police, Sabsana’s mother, Mildred, said she wondered when her child’s killer would be brought to justice, but she was happy that the suspect had handed himself over. The ANCWL ward 38 chairperson, Zukiswa Malima, said she and the community of New Crossroads were overjoyed that Mdingi had abandoned his bail application. “Deserting his bail application is exactly what we wanted. He is fine behind bars. Jail is where he belongs,” said Malima. Siya Monakali, spokesperson for Ilitha Labantu, which advocates against women and children abuse, said the killing and abuse of women were the result of communities being silent about abuse. “The scourge of violence has not subsided. It feels this 16 Days (of Activism Against Women Abuse) is not as genuine as it should be. The impact of it needs to be questioned. “Every year we hear of women being abused by their partners and nothing changes. Our democracy is measured by the degree in which we deal with these issues,” said Monakali.