The affair is a special treat for music lovers as they get to watch some of their favourite international and local DJs spinning the decks. The full entertainment line-up includes Jonas Blue, Klingande, Mi Casa, TiMO ODV, No Method, Da Capo, Strange Loving, Leighton Moody, Majozi, Early Hours and Johnny Paps. Hosted by KYeezi, preparation is key to keep the fun-loving spirit of music fans going strong. The Corona SunSets team have put together five top festival tips for getting maximum enjoyment out of this event, and ensuring you stay the course and don’t let the Cape Town summer sun get the best of you! Five must-haves 1. A comfortable carry-on: Nobody wants to look less than cool while strutting their stuff at one of the hottest festivals to hit town, right? However, having a nifty, small pouch that you can wear conveniently close to your body or around your hips will ensure your wallet, lip balm, plasters, sunnies, mobile and other essentials are safely stored. 2. Speaking of your phone Make sure your cellphone is fully charged before you head to the party. You don’t want to miss out on documenting your favourite DJs in action, and definitely do not want to frantically search for your friends when they are out of sight. If you can, charge a mobile power bank and take it with you to top up your phone battery when needed. 3. Ditch the heels - go for comfort: Ladies, if you are planning to dance your heart out, rather leave those high heels at home and put on a set of comfortable shoes. The same goes for the guys: don’t wear shoes that are too tight or chafe your feet. 4. Sun savvy, not sunburn Don’t ditch the sunscreen - especially if you are going to be soaking up some pre-sunset fest sunshine. To curb that all-too-familiar burnt nose look, take some inspiration from festival loving celebs like Kylie Jenner and Ian Somerhalder and consider wearing a cap or funky hat. 5.Hydration is key We know you will be celebrating with a Corona in hand, but don’t forget to stay hydrated with some much needed H20. Dancing is thirsty work - plus it can cause loss of electrolytes and potassium, leading to possible muscle cramps and weakness. So, keep an eye out for water points. If you are going to sip an 
alcoholic drink or two, preferably alternate with a drink of water in between. Corona SunSets features more than eight flagship festivals and close to 4000 events of various size and intimacy worldwide. *  Event details: Date: Tomorrow. Venue: Corona Sunsets Oval & Bungalow, Clifton. Time: Noon to 11pm. Ticket Price: R450 Regular, R550 Last minute. Bungalow Table bookings: events@kovecollection.co.za. Tickets available from www.corona.nutickets.co.za. 
Follow #CoronaSunSetsZA for more information.