Organisers of the celebrations, the Gugulethu Development Forum (GDF), aim to use the anniversary to boost the township’s tourism industry. Gugulethu was originally intended to house black people who were forcefully removed from across the peninsula by the apartheid government after the passing of the Group Areas Act and it became the centre for political activity in the Western Cape. GDF have events planned to celebrate, acknowledge and recognise the richness of the area’s culture and way of life. The plans and a logo for the celebrations were revealed over the weekend to celebrate the heroes and heroines that it produced in all spheres and professions in business, politics and the arts in a year-long programme, with each month having a theme. GDF chairperson Samora Nompunga said it was exciting to celebrate the township. “As much as we say Gugulethu will be turning 60 years, it’s worth noting that there were informal settlements and some living in bushes (forests) before 1958,” said Nompunga. He said the celebrations will be dealing with “clueless young people” who will be taught how Gugulethu came into existence. “Currently the plan is to have the celebrations in 2018 and what happens beyond that will be discussed,” Nompunga said. He said all service providers of the celebrations will be from Gugulethu. Unveiling the logo of the celebrations, GDF secretary Vincent Domingo said the logo, with orange, green and white colours represented endurance, energy, nature, healing, purity, kindness, holiness and peace. Nompunga said an interfaith mass was planned in January to pray for the year ahead, February was dedicated to elderly persons telling their stories to primary school pupils orally, in March there will be motivational talks to encourage matriculants and April and May will be dedicated to freedom and Africa respectively. He further stated that in June there will be youth celebrations, in July Gugulethu residents are encouraged to participate in the 67 minutes to celebrate Mandela Day and in August there will be women’s month celebrations. In September heroes and heroines of Gugulethu will be honoured and then in October and November the forum will join South Africans in celebrating transport month and honour 16 Days of Activism Against Women and Children abuse, respectively. The celebrations will be rounded off by mass prayer during December. The area’s ward councillor Sharon Manata said: “It is so nice that people of Gugulethu will be honoured and those born after 1990 will know how Gugulethu came into existence. “Sixty years is not child’s play,” she said. Resident Ntombizanele Sikhunga, 56, said she was looking forward to the celebrations. “It’s long overdue. We should have had the 50th celebration years ago, but I am grateful (for) the celebrations,” she said.