Winde tabled the budget allocations at “very difficult time for the agriculture sector which has hit our poultry industry the hardest”. Key allocations in both departments included R2 million for water tanks for food gardens in the West Coast, Cape Winelands, Eden and Central Karoo districts. “This water supply will sustain the food gardens to ensure that families have access to healthy food. Food gardens are also an economic driver, especially in rural communities, where residents sell surplus to earn an extra income,” Winde said. A further R10m was allocated for the installation of boreholes to ensure that residents and farms in rural communities have access to drinking water, R5m was allocated for clearing alien vegetation along the Berg River, and R7.8m allocated in drought assistance to research farms so they are able to continue research to help better prepare for the changing weather patterns. “In many instances, alien plants consume more water than indigenous plants, draining underground water sources. Alien species also limit the flow of water into our rivers.  "The Berg River project will create 40 work opportunities and 20000 person days of employment,” Winde said. A further R2.5m was reallocated to the Water Resilience project, which assists with GreenCape’s support of businesses during this water crisis. “In the past year, we have seen jobs lost in the agriculture and agri processing sector, according to the latest figures from Stats SA,” he said. To support farmers impacted by the drought, the department has already started distributing the R40m received from the national department of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs, Winde said. “The Western Cape Department of Agriculture has invested R67m in drought relief to support farmers to keep their businesses running  "With the adjustments in this budget we are seeking to further grow this sector, ensuring that it remains a major economic driver and is able to deliver quality food to residents and international markets,” Winde said.