Sea Shepherd and brothers Ed and James Harrison have collaborated on a conservation project named Under the Skin, an art series of limited-edition, interactive screen prints of endangered animals from across the globe. Under the Skin prints are hand-crafted pieces of art with a powerful underlying message: under UV light, the phosphorescent skeleton of each animal is exposed - a reminder of all that remains when a species falls into the darkness of extinction. Since Under the Skin’s launch in 2015, previous prints have included the polar bear, Sunda pangolin, Forsten’s tortoise, African elephant and more.  Twenty percent of the art series’ proceeds go to organisations dedicated to protecting each species. The inaugural print supporting Sea Shepherd’s work will be of the critically endangered vaquita porpoise. This print will be the first of four marine species in the exclusive Ocean Warrior Series in partnership with Sea Shepherd. They will be released throughout next year. Designed and printed by the Welsh-born Harrison siblings, Under The Skin prints feature 40 prints per animal, each retailing for £265 (R4 828).  Each print comes wrapped in screen-printed wrapping paper, and is accompanied by a UV torch, a maker’s booklet showing the creation process, and a charity description card. The vaquita porpoise is 
the smallest and most endangered marine mammal in the world, and is endemic to Mexico’s Upper Gulf of California, also known as the Sea of Cortez.  The tiny porpoise has garnered media attention in recent years due to its diminishing numbers as there are less than 30 in existence. Sea Shepherd has spent the last four years patrolling the Sea of Cortez as part of its Operation Milagro campaign, where vessels patrol for poachers to find and remove illegal gillnets which trap and drown the vaquita, along with other marine wildlife. James Harrison said that when the pair was made aware of the plight of the smallest porpoise in the world on the brink of extinction, they had to start working on a print to raise awareness.  “Sea Shepherd has been at the forefront of the movement to protect it, and without their four consecutive campaigns, I’m sure this incredible animal would be extinct by now.  “We’re thrilled to be working with Sea Shepherd to join forces to do anything we can to save the vaquita before it’s too late,” he said.  “My brother and I have long admired Captain Paul Watson and the organisation he founded 40 years ago,” added Ed Harrison.  “Working with him has been a dream come true, and we’re looking forward to raising awareness for the species within the Sea Shepherd series as a team.”