The Eastridge family slept outside their home over the rainy weekend, not having clarity on why they were evicted. But the City says the eviction order it obtained did not provide for alternative accommodation to be offered. A heartbroken Debra Prins, 48, said: “They came here last Tuesday, early afternoon, and we were just told to leave. They took all our possessions. "According to the law enforcement officers, we smuggle drugs from here. Everybody in this road knows we do not sell drugs.” Her two sons admit they do use heroin but “are trying to get help”. Prins said, on Friday morning one of her grandchildren, who gained access to the house through a window in search of shelter, was allegedly teargassed when law enforcement returned to the house. “My 10-year-old grandson went to sleep inside the house because it was cold. Officers saw him and used tear gas to wake him up. “My grandson was unconscious for more than an hour and neighbours were stopped from trying to assist to get him to hospital. They also would not let our neighbours take pictures of my grandson while he was lying unconscious,” Prins said. Safety and Security executive director Richard Bosman said: “Law Enforcement Social Housing Unit assisted at the address. "They were informed by the community that people had unlawfully occupied the unit. There were also allegations that the unit was being used as a drug den and was a source of constant noise and anti-social behaviour. The community became riotous and aggressive, and one of them tried to assault one of the officers with a metal pipe. “The officer disarmed the attacker and used his pepper spray to defend himself. “A boy was affected by the pepper spray and the officers administered neutraliser to stabilise him.” Mayoral  committee member for assets and facilities management Stuart Diamond said the matter went to court and an order was issued on October 3. The order was granted for “anti-social behaviour and breach of a number of conditions of the lease agreement”. “At least 31 police case numbers were linked to this address. The respondents were ordered to vacate the premises by November 3, failing which the sheriff was authorised to evict the respondents. They failed to vacate as requested,” Diamond said. He said  the order did not provide for alternative accommodation to be offered.  chevon.booysen@inl.co.za    