The sale of water has come under the spotlight following outrage on social media regarding businesses selling water in bulk.  One such company, Henk Meyer Restoration, based in Stellenbosch, has advertised on its website that they are able to deliver up to 16000 litres of water to the doorstep of the consumer.  Comments on the business’s Facebook page include questions about why people want to keep their lawns green when the province is experiencing a severe drought and might not have drinking water in a couple of months. Others have called for the practice to be prohibited.  “With the Western Cape suffering serious water shortage challenges in 2017 ahead of the summer months, our water supply solution offers excellent value with our legal and ethically sourced water supply and delivery to clients across the Cape.   “Our water is clean, clear and 100% safe! It can be arranged to be delivered right to your door, your company, or to the Cape Town Harbour.  "Whether you need water to fill your swimming pool, your water tank, or you want to make use of the water for high-pressure roof or wall cleaning, we can supply up to 16 000 litres of water to meet your demands,” the business's website reads.  Prices range from between: 1 litre-5 000 litres at a cost of R3 200. Quantities between 13 000 litres-16 000 litres will cost R6 800.  The company's Henk Meyer said the water comes from a bottling plant. “We receive it clean from the plant. It has been used once to rinse and steam bottles.” He said the selling price is determined by “mostly the capital cost and the running cost of the trucks”. He also said the company was not seeing an increase in orders owing to the drought   Mayor Patricia de Lille’s spokesperson, Zara Nicholson, said that in general the legality of the sale depended on the source of the water.  “If water is being taken from the municipal supply it will constitute resale of water which is prohibited. They will then be liable to a fine or imprisonment,” she said.  If a company is extracting water from an alternative source (other than from the municipal supply), for example from boreholes or springs then a formal application must be sent to National Department of Water and Sanitation, she said.  “Consumers must ensure that what they purchase is not unlawful. Demand proof of the source of the water and whether it has been legitimately extracted,”  Nicholson said.  The City can only guarantee that the water they supply is drinking water quality.  For all alternative sources of water, such as greywater or borehole water, or water from springs and other sources, the City advises residents only to use it for flushing toilets.