The overjoyed families had been residing on the Wellington farm for decades and had feared eviction after CHP Developments had purchased the property. They hoped that other farm owners and landowners could follow suit.  However, following negotiations, an agreement was reached between the owners and the families, and was made an order of court at the Western Cape High Court on February 23.  Yesterday Marcheline van der Westhuizen, who is a beneficiary, said she was “happy” and “excited” about their new family home.  “I did not not expect them to do it like this. On Friday they took us to the property and presented everyone with four keys that we could choose one from.  ‘‘Each house has two bedrooms, a beautiful kitchen with built-in cupboards and a stove.  “For 20 years we lived without water, it wasn’t nice but we survived. Now I just want this home to be looked after.”  The families’ chief negotiator, Nosey Pieterse of the Rural Agricultural and Allied Workers Union, said this was a major victory for them. “We were fighting this matter since 2015. In 2016 I got to speak to the developer and discovered he was actually a sincere man. "He heard me out and understood my vision for the people. "As we spoke we reached an agreement and followed that with a court order to seal the deal.” CHP Developments lawyer Steph Grobler said: “The agreement was achieved through a meaningful negotiation process between the occupiers facilitated by Steph Grobler of Van Wyk Van Heerden Attorneys and Nosey Pieterse of Bewusa and attorney Marius Abrahams on behalf of the occupiers. “The agreement is unique because it will ensure that all four heads of households become homeowners, thus going beyond the parameters of the Extension of Security of Tenure Act and is testament to what can be achieved when parties work together to find a sustainable alternative accommodation solution," she said. Grobler said the handover was a “joyous” and “emotional” occasion. “The relocation is also made possible through an endorsement by the Minister of Human Settlements, who has undertaken to ensure that a subsidy grant, for farm occupiers who qualify, will be made available to assist the private landowner with the purchase price,” she said.   nicola.daniels@inl.co.za 