Johannesburg - The Helen Suzman Foundation has filed court papers to sue President Jacob Zuma and the Gupta brothers for billions of rand that were allegedly unlawfully paid to the family's businesses by Eskom.  The foundation, along with Sygnia CEO Magda Wierzycka, filed court papers at the North Gauteng High Court on Thursday.  Other people also included in the application include the president's son, Duduzane, and all the three Gupta brothers.  The respondents in the matter include Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba, Mineral Resources Minister Mosebenzi Zwane, Public Enterprise Minister Lynne Brown, Water and Sanitation Minister Nomvula Mokonyane and Eskom.   The amounts the foundation is seeking run into billions of rand and include payments that were made to the family's coal company Tegeta Explorations and Resources.  ALSO READ: #StateCapture: Court rules Zuma must appoint inquiry “The facts surrounding mismanagement and corruption at Eskom are of paramount public interest and constitutional significance, and involve the rule of law at its most fundamental levels,” said the foundation in a statement on Thursday.  The foundation wants the court to declare that the decisions made regarding deals of payments with the Guptas, were “corrupt” and the result of corrupt activity. Another request includes that the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) be asked to investigate corrupt decisions taken. The notorious Gupta family has been linked to alleged corrupt activity through its friendship with the President.  The family has also been linked to state capture allegations over its influence of the running of government department and state-owned enterprises.  At a parliamentary inquiry currently under way, a number of former Eskom employees testified of the influence the Gupta brothers had on board appointments. It was also alleged that Public Enterprise Minister Lynne Brown was "captured” the family and received instructions from them. Brown has denied these claims.   Politics Hub