Durban – The African National Congress (ANC) in KwaZulu-Natal has expressed its "deep dissatisfaction and disappointment" at the judgement handed down by the Pietermaritzburg High Court on Friday. An execution order was granted in the ANC KwaZulu-Natal “rebels” case on Friday, meaning the party’s provincial leadership must vacate office. The 27 provincial executive committee (PEC) members who were to attend the ruling party’s national conference, which starts in Nasrec, Johannesburg, from Saturday, will now be attending as branch delegates, not as PEC members. In a statement, the provincial ANC said the court ruling has huge ramifications for the ANC constitution and the functionality of the organisation in its entirety.  "The PEC welcomes the decision of the High Court to grant it a leave to appeal the judgment in the Supreme Court of Appeal which has been urgently implemented following the judgment," it said. Read: Court rules #ANCKZN leadership must vacate office "It is the view of the ANC in KZN that, if left unchallenged, today’s ruling will create a chaotic precedent that could paralyse the democratic processes within the organisation in the future. The movement is also of the firm view that this judgement lacks in rationality, hence the PEC has resolved to institute an urgent appeal against it. The ANCKZN is more than ready to actively participate in the upcoming 54th National Conference and its positions and perspectives remain solid." The ANC KZN urged all delegates to remain focused, united, disciplined and not become side-tracked by sideshows, especially in this "juristo-crazy" season.  "The ANC KZN is ready to make history at the party’s 54th National Conference by adopting policies and electing leadership that will advance radical economic transformation, unite the organisation and ensure economic emancipation of the masses in our lifetime. We are ready, united and facing one direction." The province has thrown its weight behind Dr Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma to take the reins of the ruling party’s presidency, while the “rebels” are backing Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa African News Agency/ANA