Zuma has extended his condolences to the family of Daniels, 89, who died in Cape Town on Thursday. “We have learnt with deep sadness (of) the passing of one of the dedicated and fearless liberation struggle veterans and political prisoners, Comrade Edward Daniels, who contributed immensely in the struggle for freedom and development of the democratic South Africa.  "We wish to convey our sincere heartfelt condolences to Daniels' family and relatives; our prayer and thoughts are with them in this difficult period. May his soul rest in peace,”  said Zuma.    “Born in District Six in Cape Town in 1928, Mr Daniels fought fearlessly for justice and human rights for all; an act that led to his 15 years imprisonment in 1964 on Robben Island,” he added. Daniels' passing was not only a loss to his relatives, but to South Africa as a whole, as he served the country with distinction and with integrity, said the Ahmed Kathrada Foundation. His death came several weeks after members of the Foundation’s Board and staff visited Daniels. In spite of being ill, Daniels had been in high spirits and spent the time recounting some of his Robben Island experiences, together with fellow prisoner Laloo Chiba, said the foundation. “We extend our condolences to the family and friends of Comrade Eddie, whose legacy we are sure will inspire generations to come. Comrade Eddie’s passing is not only a loss to his relatives, but to South Africa as a whole.  "He served the country with distinction and with integrity,” said Ahmed Kathrada Foundation executive director Neeshan Balton. Daniels served 15 years in prison for his activism and was a member of the Liberal Party, joining the National Committee for Liberation, which later became the African Resistance Movement. He last visited the Island earlier this year, together with Kathrada, before Kathrada’s death in March. The foundation said Daniels, who served in the isolation section alongside Mandela, Walter Sisulu, Kathrada and Chiba, had many stories to share. After his release from prison, he   hatched a plan to help Mandela escape by helicopter.  The escape was planned for New Year’s morning 1981, but never came to fruition, said the Nelson Mandela Foundation. Speaking three years after his release from prison, Madiba said: “I liked Daniels very much. He was one of my greatest friends in prison. We got on very well.  I found him honest, very humble and very helpful indeed.”