Regan Adams, RCS chief executive officer, said the sponsors were passionate and committed to growing the event. There would now be entertainment and fun activities after the race, making  it even more exciting. Founded in 1992, the RCS Gugulethu Athletics club is the founding  branch of the RCS Gugulethu Race (2007). In partnership with RCS, Clicks, Adidas, and the Cape Times, the race has since doubled in size, and this year they hope to see attendance numbers grow dramatically. Asked what the race meant to him, and how the event would benefit the community, Adams - who is also a member of the Gugulethu Athletics Club - said the race promoted the joy that running gives people. “All volunteers on the day are members of the RCS Gugs Athletics Club. It is extremely difficult for clubs to raise money, so races provide income that can then be ploughed back into the club to promote running in the community and support our athletes who often struggle to just have enough money to enter races. “It has definitely grown in popularity and size. We have almost doubled in size in 2016 and I am sure that the race is becoming a big drawcard among South Africans and tourists. “We can really attribute the success of the growth to our sponsors, especially our main media sponsor which is the Cape Times, for creating considerable awareness around the race and highlighting the uniqueness of the experience. "We also have to acknowledge the support from the running community who encourage other runners to come and participate.” He said the experience of running through Gugulethu on Reconciliation Day brings across the spirit and meaning of ubuntu. “This is a unique and incredible race. As first-time runners, athletes might be weary of visiting a township. "However, the community of Gugulethu is very supportive and are huge fans of the race which contributes to making the spirit and vibe even better on the day. And it is a flat route so you can take it very easy on the day and take everything in,” said Adams. Tickets for the 10km and 4.2km races are available online at www.entrytime.co.za and at the stadium on December 16.  lonwabo.marele@inl.co.za 