AN argument between three Langa friends turned deadly when one of them went on the rampage, stabbing to death one of his roommates while leaving the other fighting for his life. The knife-wielding suspect, identified as Mziyanda , was later rushed to hospital after residents allegedly attacked him following Sunday s incident in Zone 20, Langa. The incident occurred hours before a 16-year-old was stabbed to death in Zone 11, Langa, at about 12.44am yesterday in an unrelated incident. The three men, who according to residents were like brothers, were drinking at a nearby tavern when they got into an argument. Witnesses said 25-year-old Mziyanda took offence at being called a boy and took out a knife, and allegedly stabbed his friend Kwanele Time several times in his upper body. The 23-year-old died at the scene. Mziyanda allegedly turned the knife on his other roommate, whom residents identified as Cargo , before residents intervened and allegedly attacked Mziyanda. Tavern owner Neliswa Ntasheka said the three men were regular customers, and that she had never seen them having problems with each other. I don t know what was wrong with Mziyanda. They were all brothers. They frequently came here and we have never had any problems with them in the past, but yesterday (Sunday) it was just something else. I am still shocked because when I got here, there was blood everywhere, said Ntasheka. She said the suspect managed to escape from the crowd by running on top of the shacks and hiding inside a house. Seventy-five-year-old grandmother Nomaindia Ndongeni said an angry mob threatened to burn down her neighbour s house, where the young man had been hiding, before he ran off, crossing Jakes Gerwel Drive into Bonteheuwel, where he was finally cornered. He was caught. We called the police several times but we had no answer. Residents were pelting him with stones while he was running on top of the shacks. These people were so close. I ran to lock myself and my grandchildren inside when this was happening, said Ndongeni. Police spokesperson FC van Wyk said Langa SAPS members were were called to respond to a murder at Zone 20, number 63. Upon arrival members were informed that a 25-year-old man had stabbed two people, age 23 and 26, while they were drinking together. The 23-year-old died due to injuries sustained, and the 26-year-old was taken to a nearby hospital. It was further reported that the suspect was beaten by community members and he fled to Bonteheuwel, where SAPS members arrested him. The 25-year-old suspect was taken to a nearby hospital for medical treatment. A case of murder and attempted murder was registered for investigation. The investigation continues, he said. [email&#160;protected]