A giant. Warrior. Legend. Laughing eyes. Fighter. Those were some of the tributes paid to Joost van der Westhuizen on Monday after he lost his battle with motor neuron disease.There has been an outpouring of well wishes on social media from the rugby and the wider sporting world, and beyond, for the former Springbok captain Van der Westhuizen, who passed away on Monday afternoon.The 45-year-old ex-scrumhalf was admitted to a Johannesburg hospital on Saturday morning, but after showing some progress over the weekend, he died at home on Monday. Great memories with our dear friend and team mate, laughing eyes even in the face of adversity! #RIPJoost we miss you already, said halfback teammate from the victorious 1995 World Cup side, Joel Stransky.The right wing in that team, James Small, posted: #RIPJoost what an amazing life my brother!! Your kids can be so very proud!! U were a footprint.. not a foot note... RIP cuz Minister of Sport and Recreation Fikile Mbalula said that South Africa is poorer without Joost van der Westhiuzen, a giant &amp; warrior of SA rugby. I send my sincere condolences to his family. Breyton Paulse also praised his former Bok captain. Was a pleasure sharing a dressing room with you, A warrior in every sense of the word, legend of the game, God Bless your fam, rus sag ou grote (rest in peace, legend). Gary Teichmann, who took over the Bok captaincy from Francois Pienaar in 1996 and is now the Sharks chief executive, stated: Joost was a great team man and was an outstanding ambassador for South African rugby. I will always cherish the memories we shared, both on and off the field. Our sincere condolences are extended to the entire Van der Westhuizen family on the loss of a son, brother, husband and father. Former Springbok and Blue Bulls captain Naas Botha reminisced about Van der Westhuizen s exploits as a scrumhalf and put to bed any debate about Van der Westhuizen s status in the game. It is a really sad day for the family. It is them first, then South Africa and then rugby. He was just a phenomenal player from his days at Tuks and when he played for the Bulls, Botha said. We had about five games at most as a halfback pair and I was at the end of my career while he was starting his. But I think there is enough evidence and enough being said about him over the years of him playing that he is one of the better number 9s in world rugby, and he will be one of South Africa s best ever. He is one of those players that you will find once in a lifetime. Normally, left-footed scrumhalves struggle a little bit because the game is designed more for right-footed players.&quot;Former Springbok flyhalf Errol Tobias also paid Van der Westhuizen a personal tribute. He was a big player and although I played ahead of his era, he is that one player I would have loved to play with. He was one of our greatest, and he greatly contributed to our World Cup victory in 1995, he said. During our debates on television, we shared a lot of knowledge. Our opinions sometimes differed, but it was for the betterment of rugby. He was a strong character who always stood his ground. And if he decided on something it took a lot of persuasion to convince him otherwise. Some of Van der Westhuizen s opponents also remembered the Bok No 9 fondly. Very sad news. Was one of the best I was lucky enough to play against and he fought so hard against this disease, said former England captain Will Carling.Ex-Ireland skipper Brian O Driscoll said: RIP Joost van der Westhuizen. An incredible player and fighter to the end. The first of the new age 9 s. All Black flyhalf Dan Carter added: He was one of the few non-All Black players I adored. Such sad news! #RIPJoost Proteas ODI captain AB de Villiers said You will be missed! , while former batsman Herschelle Gibbs recalled some memorable times with Van der Westhuizen. What a man what a player @9Joost !!! Boks best no9 and one of the all time greats to play the game. rip legend, we had some awesome times. Ex-Proteas skipper Graeme Smith: #RIPJoost my thoughts go out to his family, friends and the many people whose lives he impacted. Former Bafana Bafana leader Lucas Radebe said Sad news abt the passing of former springbok Joost Van Der Westhuizen .The final word goes to Springbok lock Bakkies Botha, who tweeted: R. I. P. JOOST NOW YOU ARE PAIN FREE. PEACE LEGEND. 