Parliament warned that the public spats between former public protector Thuli Madonsela and her successor, Busisiwe Mkhwebane, which also dragged in President Jacob Zuma s name, would tarnish the image and credibility of the office.Chairman of the portfolio committee on justice and correctional services Mathole Motshekga yesterday called for the fight to end, to protect the office s reputation.He said many people looked up to that office and if its name was sullied they would be disappointed.Mkhwebane and Madonsela have been at each other s throats since the weekend when the former public protector accused Mkhwebane and Zuma of docking a portion of her pension payout.The money was withheld by Mkhwebane s office to determine if Madonsela was liable for a car crash in 2012.The damage to the state vehicle amounted to R500 000. Her son was driving the vehicle when it crashed in 2012.Mkhwebane said she was getting legal opinion if Madonsela was liable for the repair costs.Motshekga said all parties must put a stop to the dispute as it damaged this important institution.He said if both Madonsela and Mkhwebane were unhappy they could approach the office of the Minister of Justice.But they were waiting for Mkhwebane to appear before the portfolio committee to give answers.Motshekga would not say how soon Mkhwebane would appear before the committee. If they happen to appear before our committee soon we will need an explanation because the credibility of that office is very important to South Africans. &quot;We hope they will be able to resolve the matter soon, said Motshekga.He said it was unfortunate that Zuma s name had been dragged into the fray.He said the committee had not had time to discuss the matter, but would wait for the public protector to appear before the committee. Mkhwebane said she did not want to be involved in public disputes any more. The ANC Women s League blasted Madonsela for attacking Zuma and the public protector.ANCWL secretary general Meokgo Matuba said Madonsela could not question the process that had led to her successor s appointment.She told the former public protector to stay away from Zuma and Mkhwebane. South Africa has a public protector who was appointed through a transparent, fair process and her name is advocate Busisiwe Mkhwebane, said Matuba. By casting aspersions about the appointment of the public protector, Madonsela is not only undermining the integrity of Parliament, the president and Mkhwebane, but also the intelligence of South Africans who watched the transparent and live interviews of the candidates, who contested for (the) public protector position. She said Zuma had not influenced the appointment of Mkhwebane. She also said Madonsela should focus on her new role at Stellenbosch University and forget about the office of the public protector.Her term had ended in October and Mkhwebane was now in charge. Mkhwebane said she did not have any ill-will towards Madonsela and she wanted to focus on her job.