A BITTER divorce battle between the DA and the Metsimaholo Civic Association (MCA) in the Free State is looming as the parties ready themselves to air their dirty linen in public.Yesterday, DA Free State leader Patricia Kopane said the honeymoon period between the opposition and the new party, formed by the province s residents, was over, citing irreconcilable differences. The coalition has definitely collapsed. We will still go ahead with tabling our motion of no confidence against the mayor, said Kopane.Her comments come days after the party withdrew its vote against MCA chairperson and current mayor Sello Hlasa, saying he did not have time to respond to allegations levelled against him.The DA has charged Hlasa with several misdemeanours, which include wasteful expenditure and the awarding of tenders without following proper procedures.The two parties entered into a coalition agreement after last year s local government elections in a bid to remove the ANC from power.With only 12 seats, the DA joined forces with the MCA, which had two seats at the time, and gained the support of the EFF, which has eight seats. For a party to govern in the municipality it needs 21 seats.Now that the agreement has collapsed, and so intent is the DA on serving Hlasa with divorce papers, the party plans to provide the Metsimaholo Local Municipality council with a new date.But an unfazed Hlasa yesterday said the feeling was mutual and he was ready to expose the DA as power hungry . I also no longer want them (the DA). They are obsessed with power and running the municipality. They wanted the mayorship so badly at our expense. Now that they don t have it, they resort to silly tactics. It s disgraceful, Hlasa said.He emphasised that he still did nothing wrong as per the submissions he made to the council on January 25, when he replied to the allegations against him.Hlasa said he was not going anywhere not by a long shot. They must resubmit that motion of theirs. I m not going to do their homework for them. They will have to substantiate their claims. Once they have, they will then need to give me 14 days to prepare my legal arguments once again. I m prepared to go in circles and play their game if they want me to, he said.Hlasa said the MCA was not interested in forming a new relationship with the EFF either.He said the MCA s mandate now was to go back to the community and ask what the way forward was.Asked whether this included entering into a coalition agreement with the ANC, Hlasa replied: I m not ruling out the ANC. But I will have to go back to the community to hear if they want that. Meanwhile, the ANC on Wednesday retained a seat in ward 12 of the municipality, which was highly contested.This follows by-elections held after its councillor, Nyamezile Khondo, resigned last year over internal party conflict. His successor, councillor Lebohang Makhefu, ensured the ANC kept the seat with 31.34% of the 1 588 votes cast. The party now has 19 seats.The ANC, meanwhile, also clinched wards in the Western Cape and Eastern Cape. These results confirm the people s confidence in the governing party, said ANC spokesperson Zizi Kodwa.