President Jacob Zuma has committed the government to taking charge of economic growth, improving infrastructure and funding higher education by billions of rand.In a speech punctuated with deadlines and funding commitments, Zuma also promised to overhaul the health-care system in light of the deaths of 94 mentally-ill patients in Gauteng. Zuma s speech was delayed by more than an hour when the EFF and DA refused to let him speak, saying he had not defended the constitution and therefore should be disqualified from being in Parliament.Parliament s security staff removed EFF MPs from the Chamber when they refused to leave on orders from the Speaker. DA MPs then walked out of the House. Zuma has instructed Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi to fully implement the recommendations of the Health Ombudsman to take back some of the powers from provinces.Zuma said Motsoaledi would have to get back some of the functions that were taken from the national department in 2003 in the caring of mental health patients.This legislation would have to be brought to Parliament and would give Motsoaledi the powers to run the mental health facilities.The tragedy cost Gauteng Health MEC Qedani Mahlangu her job after she quit, and opposition parties also want Premier David Makhura to go.Zuma said the economy was getting back on track despite slow growth last year.He said collaboration with business and labour had yielded results. While the global economic environment remains uncertain, indications are that we have entered a period of recovery. We anticipate an economic growth rate of 1.3% in 2017 following an estimated 0.5% in 2016, he said.This is the projection that has been made by the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. But Zuma said the intention was to transform the economy by giving black businesses a big slice of government tenders.He said the bulk of government s annual R500 billion tender budget would be given to small black businesses. A big portion of government s R900bn infrastructure budget would also be given to black people.Zuma said this would help address the skewed economy, and his government was implementing radical economic transformation.The need is for more black industrialists, and for the country to move away from share-scheme ownership in companies. The president also said government would pump more money into higher education.The Heher Commission will finalise its work this year on higher education funding.Zuma said all deserving students would be fully funded.On land reform, the president said there needed to be speedy transformation of land. Only 9.8% of land had been returned to black people. He said he had referred the Land Restitution Bill back to Parliament for reconsideration.This followed the Constitutional Court ruling in July after Parliament was taken to court over the constitutionality of the bill. Zuma signed the bill into law in 2014, but the Constitutional Court has halted any lodgements of new claims.Zuma said he was concerned that 90% of land claims were settled through financial compensation. He welcomed the recovery of the mining sector after a drop in commodity prices, which impacted heavily on the industry, and led to a jobs bloodbath.He said mining, which contributes 7% to the economy, had been the backbone of the economy for many years.The president also spoke firmly of South Africa s foreign policy, saying the country did not recognise Taiwan.He said South Africa recognised China, and Taiwan as part of China. This follows a visit to Taiwan by DA mayor in Tshwane Solly Msimanga.