Teachers, parents and pupils disrupted schooling at Mseki Primary in Gugulethu yesterday morning to protest against overcrowded classrooms and teachers who have gone unpaid.Protesters marched to Gugulethu police station, but were dispersed and told to go back to the school because their march was illegal. Several police vehicles then escorted them back to the school.For the past two weeks classes have been disrupted owing to unhappiness by teachers and parents about the same issues that brought them out on the streets of Gugulethu yesterday.School governing body member Phunyezwa Sonqishe said most of the classes had about 50 pupils, and the only Grade 7 class had 65. It is easy for them to cheat during class because the teacher cannot manage such big numbers. Three teachers have been working on contract since 2015, and two of those have not been paid since December 27. This is frustrating because at one stage we asked parents to contribute R10 each, but this cannot continue because parents don t have money themselves. The department is playing games with us. We sat and discussed the issues with them three times already, but they don t come with solutions. These are the reasons we decided to take to the streets. All we want are mobile classrooms to alleviate the situation, said Sonqishe. Cleo Magqashela, 30, whose two children Lelethu, 10, and Siphokazi, attend the school, said she sympathised with the unpaid teachers and the pupils who learn in overcrowded classrooms. The department should bring mobile classrooms because building other classes would take time, even years. We can t send children to other schools, as the department advises, because this is the nearest school, said Magqashela. Spokesperson for the provincial Education Department Millicent Merton said all the teachers at the school have received their salaries. The teachers in question have been appointed on contract. The school enrolled 35 more pupils this year compared with last year. As a result, some of the classrooms are crowded. Our district office will assist the school with teaching strategies to manage large classes, said Merton. She said officials from the department s Infrastructure Directorate would also meet the school s governing body to discuss the issues. [email&#160;protected]