Religious leaders have thrown their support behind Bromwell Street residents in their court battle against being evicted from Woodstock and relocated to Wolwerivier more than 25km out of the city centre. Anglican Church leaders in Cape Town yesterday described the move as apartheid-style evictions , calling on the city, private developers and courts to help Bromwell Street residents find alternative accommodation nearby. The religious leaders say the evictions are unacceptable under the country s constitution and the wealthy should refrain from displacing families for their own ends and turning residents into refugees in their own town. The solidarity from religious leaders comes as the Western Cape High Court is set to deliver judgment on the case. The residents have asked the court to declare that the City has a constitutional duty to provide them and their dependants with temporary emergency accommodation as near as possible to where they lived.The religious leaders have appealed to the Woodstock Hub, City of Cape Town and the courts to reconsider the proposal to move the residents to Wolwerivier.The City had planned to relocate 27 residents to Wolwerivier, near Melkbosstrand. But the residents have rejected the idea. In a statement, Bishop Garth Counsell and the Diocesan Chapter of the Anglican Diocese of Cape Town said: It is shocking that the poor have to resort to the courts to fight for their democratic right to a home close to their place of work, school, essential services and livelihood opportunities. He said moving the families to Wolwerivier would mean further expenses for the struggling families and result in more poverty, hardship and trauma.The religious leaders have expressed deep concern over comments made by presiding Judge Leslie Weinkove during proceedings, saying they were grossly insensitive as they highlight once again an indication that somehow the moral compass of our society has shifted . The recent comments by Judge Leslie Weinkove, who asked, What s the point of being near a school? What s the point of them being near transport? Where are they going to go? are of great concern to us, he said. Meanwhile the 21 South Road families facing relocation to make way for a MyCiti bus route, say they will take their case to the country s apex court. This is after the full bench of the Western Cape High Court ruled in favour of the city when the judges upheld the city s appeal on Friday.The City said the court had found that it had engaged in a comprehensive public participation process which had commenced in August 2014 and included engagements with the South Road Families Association and its 21 members who reside along South and Waterbury Roads in Plumstead.South Road Families Association spokesperson Clive Muller yesterday said while they were disappointed, they felt the judge had not applied her mind to the matter. We are seeking advice with an intention of taking the matter to the Constitutional Court. From the sessions we had, they (the city) indicated it was not a consultation process but an information session, said Muller. [email&#160;protected]