The United National Transport Union (UNTU) on Tuesday said both drivers had been authorised to travel on the same track in opposite directions when their trains collided in Pretoria, leaving more than 100 passengers injured.While it was still unclear what caused the head-on collision along the Lynross Railway Line in Pretoria north, UNTU said: What we do know is that the operating method was abnormal, both train drivers were authorised by their train conform officers to continue on the route. Steve Harris, the general secretary of UNTU, said Metrorail train 9478 was travelling from Dewildt to Pretoria and train 9457 was travelling between Rosslyn and Medusa railway station.On Monday evening, Metrorail Gauteng spokesperson Lillian Mofokeng said more than 200 train commuters were injured when the trains collided. The train crash happened around 6pm. The two trains have collided. The crashed because they were on the same track. The latest update is that at least 216 people have been injured and are receiving attention as we speak, Mofokeng said at the crash scene. We do not have any fatalities reported. Also, we do not have the categories of the injuries to passengers yet. The injured have been taken to various local hospitals. We will be getting our updates. UNTU, which wished the injured a speedy recovery, said the train drivers were among the 20 people seriously injured and were being treated at the Netcare Akasia Hospital. We must allow the relevant authorities to investigate the cause properly. It is a blessing that there were no fatalities reported, said the general secretary of UNTU.Mofokeng said by 10pm on Monday all passengers from the two trains had been evacuated by numerous emergency personnel and police who were still milling around the collision scene. We have since closed the entire corridor. All our trains between Pretoria and Ga-Rankuwa have been suspended until we have managed to clear the scene. As you can see, we have so far managed to clear all the injured from the trains. We are now trying to address the issue of those who need alternative transport, Mofokeng said. Buses have been arranged to transport people (commuters) to their home stations. We are going to be working around the clock to clear this accident scene. Mofokeng said thorough investigations will be conducted to ascertain the cause of the crash. We will be investigating those details. Our teams will now start to investigate the cause of the accident. A security guard at a nearby company who rushed to the accident scene said he was relieved the impact on the two trains had been minimal. It s difficult to actually see the physical impact but when you look closely, you will see where the two trains crashed. To be honest, I was expecting the worst because trains have a lot of power and carry thousands of people. I rushed to the scene when it happened in an effort to help out, said the guard, who only identified himself as Mabaso. African News Agency