What was supposed to be a most memorable hike almost turned deadly for Grassy Park resident Ebrahim Dawood. The 36-year-old, hiking for the first time in Newlands Forest, was found with head injuries and severe bruises after he had gone missing on Sunday night. He had allegedly been robbed by three men and pushed on to a ledge, according to his family. It is not clear how he sustained the injuries. Dawood separated from his cousin Sulaiman Achmat, Achmat s wife and their cousin, when he decided to take a different hiking route to get to the top.Achmat said that after the group had got lost, Dawood decided to take a longer route to get to their destination. We started out hiking at 11am but we got lost and ended up at a hidden area. We were provided with two directions and Ebrahim decided to separate because he wanted to climb. We got to the top first. When we tried calling him, his phone was off. We waited for him for an hour but there was no sign of him. We went back down to do a check but he was not there after we had waited for an hour, said Achmat.He said they left the forest at about 6pm to drop off his wife and cousin at home before he went back to continue with the search. When I came back there were still a lot of people around. I asked around but no one had seen him that is when I decided to call the police, he said. The search continued through the night and Dawood was found at about 2am yesterday. He was not himself. The only thing he could remember was that he was mugged by three guys who pushed him on the ledge.&quot;Hiking is something that me and my wife just started and Ebrahim decided to join us this weekend, he said. Dawood is recovering in hospital.Wilderness Search and Rescue spokesperson Johan Marais said their launch was intensified yesterday morning after the hiker could not be located on Sunday night. We deployed members of our K9 unit with the dogs One of the search parties found the missing person. Although he was able to walk out, he was found to be disoriented and dehydrated.&quot;On closer inspection, it was obvious he was mugged in the course of last night, and suffered other minor bruises,&quot; said Marais. The incident came a day after a tourist died after he fell while hiking on Table Mountain on Saturday. His body was found on Sunday on the Platteklip Gorge route following a search.