Retired justice Albie Sachs says the constitution provides a framework for what is most needed in this country now the invigoration, greater energy and projection of African languages.As part of raising awareness of multilingualism to celebrate 28 days of Language Activism Month, Sachs spoke at the Pan South African Language Board s (PanSALB) inaugural public lecture and language awards at the Cape Town International Convention Centre yesterday. Sachs also led discussions about linguistic human rights, language promotion and the use of languages for cohesion. Sachs said we have not solved the language question in South Africa, but we have avoided disastrous policies and approaches. The constitution provides a framework for the invigoration, greater energy and projection of African languages, not as used in daily discourse, but also in public discourses, in literature, in science, in law and elsewhere, he said. But we don t have to amend the constitution to get there. The mechanisms are there, we have to develop the policies to achieve the kind of progress and advances we envisaged, Sachs added. Under the theme #Speakit- Liveit , the inaugural lecture and language awards have been organised to promote, protect and preserve multilingualism in the country. They are aimed at making an earnest contribution and providing a meaningful role on the importance of languages, not only in the public domain but also in the entire society.The event was also held in support of the observance of International Mother Language Day, declared to be held on February 21 annually by the UN Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (Unesco). PanSALB s chief executive, Dr Rakwena Monareng, said: These awards will not only speak volumes to the public, but also sustain an important restoration of humanity in all our people, as language forms part of who they are. It is an important fundamental human right we all should embrace to ensure that we do not forget who we are and where we come from as a nation. As we continue celebrating linguistic and cultural diversity and multilingualism, it is important that we always reflect on the Republic s use of all official languages and other languages as enshrined in the founding document of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa.&quot;Through public inaugural and language awards as scheduled, PanSALB desires to continue nurturing the development of multilingualism to ensure that we advance equitable use of indigenous languages in the country,&quot; Monareng said.Individuals who have contributed largely in the promotion, preservation and protection of multilingualism were recognised under categories including music, language and literature, which includes all official languages, South African sign languages, Khoisan, media, technology, business and education.