Speaker Baleka Mbete and National Council of Provinces chairperson Thandi Modise have promised to deal firmly with any disruptions by the EFF today.The EFF has promised to disrupt President Jacob Zuma s State of the Nation address (Sona) as the party did not recognise him as head of state. But Modise and Mbete told journalists yesterday they would not tolerate any disruptions in the chamber. However, they maintained everything would be done in accordance with the rules of Parliament and the law.Parliament has employed dozens of security officers to eject EFF MPs if they cause disruptions. Modise said that despite receiving warnings via the media, they hoped EFF MPs would behave themselves. Are we anticipating any out-of-the-way behaviour and what are the measures? We are hoping the proceedings will go according to plan, said Modise.But Parliament was busy redrafting the rules to tighten them to deal with unruly MPs. The National Assembly is revisiting the rules because our rules did not anticipate certain behaviours, said Modise.The threat of disruption comes amid the apparent deployment of a large contingent of SANDF soldiers to monitor today s address. This has led to an outcry from opposition parties, denials from Parliament and debate on the move s constitutionality. Yesterday, opposition parties were adamant that the deployment of soldiers was a breach of the constitution. But Mbete denied the troops would be descending on the parliamentary precinct to protect Zuma. The DA, UDM, African Christian Democratic Party, IFP and EFF said the president was in a state of panic and paranoia and had breached the constitution by deploying the troops, with all of the parties demanding the army stay out of Parliament.But Mbete denied Zuma had breached the constitution, saying this was done every year during the address or a visit by a head of state.The state has spent more than R200 000 for the deployment of the soldiers for five days.The Speaker also confirmed that the number of soldiers deployed had increased from 168 in 2013 to 188 in 2015, and this year to 411.Modise said they would find out from the army why the number had been increased. Modise said a meeting was held with chief whips from opposition parties who raised this question. In the meeting, we undertook to find out why the numbers have grown, she said. Modise said the troops would be placed outside to help the police in the event of trouble.Mbete also reassured there would be no crackdown on journalists. However, this did not appear to be enough to appease the opposition parties, with IFP chief whip Narend Singh saying Sona had been overtaken by the army deployment. So far, centre stage has been taken by heightened security. It is unprecedented, said Singh.ACDP leader the Reverend Kenneth Meshoe said Zuma was paranoid. Bringing the army to Parliament when there is no war is unacceptable, he said.The EFF said Zuma s decision was a declaration of war, and promised to vigorously oppose the move.Police Minister Nathi Nhleko told MPs the SAPS was ready for Sona today.