Harvesting grapes from vines that have been exposed to veld fire smoke can result in wines tainted with soot and having smokey, burnt and ash aromas and cigarette, ash tray, acrid and metallic flavours.This, according to researchers at the Institute for Grape and Wine Sciences basedat Stellenbosch University, can be found in grape juice and wine, and research hasled to the development of guidelines on how to handle smoke-tainted fruit. The Western Cape hasexperienced several fires over the last few months, some resulting in loss of property and crops.One such fire in the Du Toitskloof Mountain last month destroyed 650 hectares of vegetation.A week prior, a runaway fire in the Helderberg Mountains abovein Somerset West destroyed almost half the historic Vergelegen farm and caused extensive damage to the Bezweni Lodge in Sir Lowry s Pass Village.According to findings published by the institute, a high-pressure cold water wash can help remove ash, but only after canopy leaf plucking. Hand harvesting the grapes minimises the breaking, rupturing of skins as long as possible. The study found that the volatile phenols responsible for the smoke taint are more concentrated in grape skins. Without leaf plucking it can make matters worse. &quot;Rinsing of the grapes once harvested might be more practical. &quot;It will not affect the volatiles already in the grapes, but it will help to remove excess ash and smoke particles that contribute to the 'ashtray taste'. &quot;The grapes need to be allowed to drain and dry off afterwards, an extract of the findings read.The institute hasalso advised not to mix tainted wines with non-smoke tainted wines, since fruity aromas associated with young wines diminish over time.Practical guidelines for managing vineyards during drought have also been drafted.During dry seasons, soil profiles do not usually atfield capacity at bud break and water stress could have a negative impact on yield. The institute hasalso advised on an irrigation strategy in dry years. Tips include: applying bigger irrigation less frequently instead of applying less water per irrigation; when the soil has a medium to high water-holding capacity, avoid frequent irrigation applications; irrigating at night to reduce evaporation; and knowing what the water-holding capacity of the soil is to avoid irrigating beyond the point where the soil can hold the water.