THREE days after celebrating his 21st birthday, Lwandile Mazwi was stabbed to death at the weekend, allegedly by a youngster from an orphanage in Khayelitsha.The False Bay College student was a stone s throw from his D-Section home in Khayelitsha when he was attacked. A suspect later turned himself over to the police. The alleged attacker, whose name and age has not yet been released, appeared in the Khayelitsha Magistrate s Court yesterday. His case was postponed to Friday. The Homestead Projects for Street Children said it has been left devastated by his alleged action as he was settled and doing very well at school .Mazwi was last seen alive by his parents, Sidwell and Thobeka, before receiving a phone call while he was preparing to go to bed. He left home just after 9pm. Less than 30 minutes later, a neighbour knocked on the Mazwis' door, then asked them to come outside.They later found their son lying on the ground with bloodied clothes from a stab wound. My wife arrived first and tried holding him. I remember her hands full of blood and I could see my son was giving in. I pulled my wife away from him. When I held him, I could feel that nothing much could be done, said Sidwell. He said a police officer who arrived later told them that a suspect had turned himself in and the knife he allegedly used was confiscated. We do not want to speculate what might have been the motive. However, we suspect it might have something that had to do with a girl. The police have asked for his phone so that they could do a proper investigation. The last call he got might be crucial, Sidwell said. We never planned for such a thing. He had celebrated his birthday on the 26th. We have not accepted what has happened to us. My son was loved by everyone in this community. The painful part about this is the person who did this was supposed to be under a watchful eye not roaming in the streets. Plans for Mazwi's funeral were under way.The Homestead Projects for Street Children director Paul Hooper said: It s a very tragic situation because the youngster was a good kid with a lot of promise. He was doing very well at school. We are obviously devastated by the event. The details are still underinvestigation by the police. He is incarcerated at the moment. Hooper said the children were not locked up at the facility as some were orphans, abandoned and abused. We do have security and higher walls, but you can t keep the children by force. The children choose to be here, he said. [email&#160;protected]