The struggling Kannaland Municipality needs R11 million to fund a financial recovery plan it hopes will catapult it out of more than a decade of debt.A financial recovery plan has been drafted, and is available for public comment until the end of the month.Kannaland is about 325km from Cape Town and comprises Calitzdorp, Ladismith, Vanwyksdorp and Zoar. The majority of the 25000 people living in the areas work on fruit farms and dairy factories.The draft financial recovery plan states that the Kannaland Municipality has been experiencing financial difficulties for the past 10 to 11 years. Areas addressed in the financial recovery plan are strategic leadership, institutional stabilisation and transformation, financial management and focused sustainable service delivery.Last year residents faced disconnection from electricity because of the municipality s R12m debt to Eskom.There have been two failed attempts at a financial recovery plan, and reasons for this, according to the document, include: A lack of oversight, risk management and control as well as leadership inefficiencies. An exodus of discouraged management staff that has left the municipality leaderless. Staff members were appointed on an ad hoc basis disregarding appropriate Human Resource processes, jeopardising employer-employee relationships and adding to the unaffordability of staffing costs. A revision of the organisational structure has not been done for a prolonged period. The failed attempts reason may vary from poor management involvement to the political instability in Kannaland... The Kannaland Municipality is facing significant fiscal and service delivery difficulties, which undermine the efficient performance of its functions and mandate. These difficulties are becoming increasingly severe and unless focused action is undertaken to address the underlying causes, Kannaland Municipality will find it increasingly difficult to perform its mandate, the document read.The plan will also include mandatory parameters which will bind the municipality in the preparation of future budgets until the long-term financial plan is adopted by the council or amended in terms of section 144 of the Municipal Finance Management Act (Act 56 of 2003). Last month representatives from the provincial government visited the municipality, and decided on the intervention along with the National Department of Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs and the Kannaland Municipal Council.MEC for Local Government, Environmental Affairs and Development Planning, Anton Bredell, said the province was requested by the new council after the 2016 elections to do an analysis of Kannaland. [email&#160;protected]