Standing in his vast maize field on a mountainside next to the Limpopo village of Ga-Sekgopo, 75-year-old Johannes Malesa was at a loss at what he should do.His entire maize crop has been ravaged by fall armyworms which hit the country at the beginning of this year.Malesa s fields are among hundreds in the area that have been affected. For a community that solely relies on farming for its food and income, this is a huge setback.With mealie meal the staple diet for almost half of the population, the damage could have a devastating effect on families and the community.As we climbed higher, Malesa stopped at a fence of wood, thorn bushes and wire. He opened a hidden gate and we entered his first field. The damage was unbelievable. The leaves of stalks were eaten away, and where mealies should have been growing, were remnants of corn.Three years ago, Malesa could harvest between five and eight 80kg bags of maize from his two plots, but then the drought hit. We d get some rain in October and we d be hopeful that we could plant, the maize would start growing and we d hope for a good harvest. Suddenly there would be no rain and all the crops would die, it was devastating, Malesa said.This planting season, rain began to fall and they were able to plant by November and December. We thought it was the end of our problems and things had changed. There was hope and we thought we could start recovering from the drought and then the worms came.&quot;Tearing open one of the maize stalks, Malesa picked out three large worms. He took a rock and crushed them. There s nothing we can do, we are clueless about how we will solve this problem and get rid of these worms, they are killing everything. How can we feed our families? Malesa has a family of eight. I am the sole provider but I am not the only person affected. Everyone has the same problem. I have a relative in Mpumalanga who also has it at his farm. Normally this time of year, the mealies are almost fully grown. Now there is nothing growing and we can t trade for mealie meal, which is what we mainly eat, he said.Although planting mealies comes with challenges, such as porcupines, wild pigs and monkeys breaking through the fences and eating the growing mealies, Malesa reiterated there had never been anything quite like this.During the drought those who grow maize were able to because water was accessible. They could at least water their plants using taps and the borehole, he said, pointing to the village. But for those who grow on the mountain, there was no way for us to get water to our fields. We could only buy maize from the shops, which is expensive, and living on a social grant doesn t go far, it only covers basic expenses. The last time the village saw a similar problem was in 1968 and even then, it wasn t this bad. It didn t destroy crops, there was still food to harvest. He appealed to the Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries to visit the area so they could understand how devastating the situation was and help them deal with it. If there is a powder or a medicine that can get rid of this creature, please, we ask you to help us. We need you to come here and see how bad this is, it s serious. Asked what he would do with the half-eaten crop, Malesa said he would let it continue growing until it died. There s no point in taking them out and starting again, because until we can get rid of the worm or until it goes away, the same thing will just keep happening, he said.As we hiked down the mountainside, clouds began to gather and it seemed as if the heavens were about to open, only to be blown away by gusts of wind.