NGOs have lashed out at the report released pertaining to the Esidimeni tragedy, with some going as far as to label Esidimeni a dead horse for failing to look after patients who were transferred to their facilities.Last week, the health ombudsman, Dr Malegapuru Makgoba, revealed that 94 psychiatric patients died after being transferred to 27 NGOs, which allegedly were not licensed to take care of mentally ill patients.Debbie Griesel, owner of Annani Care Centre in Vereeniging, accused Esidimeni of being unco-operative and failing to provide medical records of patients and ignoring them when they enquired about them. Esidimeni was not prepared to provide us with the information about patients history, a referral letter from the social worker or even patients district reports, she said.Patients were transferred to her facility without prerequisites and were in a terrible condition.Griesel said she runs two centres; one dedicated to trauma, molestation and rape victims, while the other focuses on the mentally handicapped. I have 30 patients who are still under my care, but only nine of them could be traced back to their families. Attempts were made to take fingerprints and trace their next of kin in that manner but that didn t bear any fruit, she said.Griesel criticised the report released by the health ombudsman, saying it painted a different picture. I am quite upset with the report because I was ready to receive patients. The Department of Health informed me that they would be bringing them in and gave us criteria to adhere to. I did. I fixed everything and they were satisfied about the work we did. Griesel disputed the report s findings regarding not having operating licences, saying her NGO was registered two years ago.However, the head of the Health Department gave her the mental health licence on the day the patients were initially brought to the NGO. Griesel said patients were transferred to her in May last year. The department informed us of its plans to move patients here and I was able to acquire a licence in February and made sure that standards were adhered to, she said.The Star visited other centres in parts of Gauteng. An employee at Kanana Care Centre in Vereeniging said they had to operate outside normal protocols to accommodate the number of patients they had. It s wrong for us to accept patients without the required documents, but what were we going to do? The department had nowhere else to take them and we couldn t allow them to suffer, the employee said.According to national Department of Health spokesperson Joe Maila, any of the 27 NGOs implicated adversely in the report have the option to appeal against the ombudsman s report. Anybody who has an issue with the ombudsman s findings has 30 days, from the day the report went public, to appeal to the minister of health. He will appoint two prominent people who are highly skilled in issues of mental health to investigate their query further, Maila said.Despite media reports that the Life Healthcare group has also raised concerns about the report, the group came out yesterday saying they stand by their earlier sentiments of commending Makgoba for the report.They reiterated their commitment to working with the government and other stakeholders to ensure mental health was treated with the seriousness it deserved.The group did not respond to Griesel s allegations by the time of publication.