THE Western Cape Department of Social Development says it will dispatch a team to probe claims that a 92-year-old resident has been abused at the Ravenzicht old-age home in Kraaifontein. This comes after the elderly woman sustained a severe cut on her arm at the home recently. Family of the resident complained to Social Development MEC Albert Fritz, saying the department should close the facility s doors after the resident was found on her bed in pain with blood everywhere .When her family recently visited her they also saw that her arm had been bandaged, her granddaughter Jenita Beling said. They didn t phone us or a doctor. When we asked the staff what happened, they said they didn t know and then told us a story of how she bit herself. We rushed her to hospital and she had to get stitches, and her blood pressure was sky high. The worst part about all of this is that there are no other old-age homes that have space available. Why should old people be moved around because of abusers and bullies... who never get fired or removed? Beling asked. In her scathing letter addressed to the Ravenzicht authorities and Fritz s department, Beling said: It is despicable and outright cruel that your staff can abuse a 92-year-old person. You should rather close your doors and be ashamed that you employ people that can do this. You are taking unemployed people and sending them on a two-week course, and then they are so- called counsellors, caregivers, social workers and all the titles to make everyone think they are fit and equipped to work with old people. I m not going to be silent about this and will be going viral until your so-called NPOs (non-profit organisations) are held accountable and to show the world what their donations are paying for. Responding to the complaint, Fritz said: I have forwarded your email for the urgent attention of Mr Charles Jordan. Jordan said: We are sending in a team to do an unannounced visit to this home and to try and get to the bottom of this case. Fritz s spokesperson Sihle Ngobese said they viewed the allegations seriously. Any matter of abuse to an older person is unacceptable. 