We don t relate to Valentine s Day. This is because love is not something that exists one day of the year. Also, love expressed on Valentine s Day is corny and only relates to romance. In our lives, love should be an everyday thing. It can be shown in different ways and shared among different people in your life. That is why we want to take this month to explore the theme of love.As Rock Girls, we experience the love among sisters . Some of us don t get the same love that others get at home and so we like to share our love when it s needed. Our bond is created through story telling. You can t love someone if you don t know them. Spending time together doing exciting things like going on our road trips, hiking, running and even writing articles together make us connect with one another and learn about, and with, one another.Before joining Rock Girls, we did not know each other. Every Rock Girl comes from a different background but this is what makes our sisterhood so strong. We have learned to come together as one and we feel loved and valued. We love to love. Each and every one. Love is also not always easy. We disagree with one another and sometimes we get annoyed with small things. However, love is also about solving these problems and learning to compromise. We also learn from one another and talk about other forms of love that we experience in our lives. For example, we discuss relationships with boys, our parents and our friends.Talking to one another, we learn how to respect ourselves and we talk about the sort of love we want in our lives.Sometimes this requires making rules that guide what you are willing to do or not to do in a relationship - no matter how blind love can make you. So while we learn what love is, we also learn what love is not. There are many girls that we know who feel pressured by love leading to sex, booze, drugs, teenage pregnancy and an unhealthy desire to please other people. We talk about the feelings of being left behind or not fitting in with other girls. These are themes we wish to explore further this month. We don t relate to Valentine s Day because our love spans wider than just chocolates and flowers. Our ability to love is made stronger within our Rock Girls sisterhood and we want to take this month to explore the unique yet everyday experience of love.