The movie Hidden Figures is the story of three women who overcame barriers to success in a time of racial and prejudicial tension in the US. This film recounts the triumphs and struggles of Katherine Johnson, played by Taraji P Henson; Dorothy Vaughn, played by Octavia Spencer; and Mary Jackson, played by singer Janelle Monae.These three brilliant women worked at Nasa and were the brains behind one of the greatest operations in aeronautical history: the launch of astronaut John Glenn into orbit.Hidden Figures has taken not only the box office by storm, but the science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) education world too.Chaired by eNCA s Cathy Mohlahlana, the screening of the American film took at place at Montecasino on Thursday night, where five female panellists shared their stories about how they overcame the barriers of working in the male-dominated field of science and engineering.The soul-stirring film shows that girls and young women, particularly those also racially under-represented in STEM, can do anything they set their mind to. I proved myself as more than a gender or physical being. We are more than just our bodies; there is something that we can do. Everyone can do whatever it is that they set their mind on, said Dr Buyi Sondezi.Tina Taylor, chief executive and founder of the Heritage Leadership Academy: STEM Education for Young Women in Emerging Markets, said the barriers she encountered had not come only from men, but from women too. Many barriers that I have faced have not just been from men, but also from women who want to put you in a category. But when you sit back, strike up a conversation and begin to open up the dialogue, you d be surprised. You realise you all want the same thing. You start moving from a place of rights to a place of equity, and we start realising you want to make sure that you re doing something that s best for us, and that is by having a common purpose and a common vision. In the motivations that I ve been involved in, that s what we try to strive towards, Taylor said.Sondezi said they visit schools and encourage pupils to do science. We are in the process where we take learners and do experiments with them because we know that most schools don t have laboratories. Taylor also said one of the reasons she left corporate America to open a STEM boarding school was to demystify science and maths. Maths is complex when it s taught in a complex way, and when you don t have access, exposure and the opportunity to actually work on those science projects, it becomes difficult and you become afraid of it, Taylor said.Nomsa Kana spoke about how she broke barriers as a woman in a male-dominated industry, creating opportunities for women who aspire to be like her. My friend I run an organisation where we take girls from rural high schools who are excelling in maths and science, and we give them exposure in the STEM industry, because we realise that there is a community that has been forgotten. The film serves as an important visualisation of the intersectionality of human experience. It comforts the disturbed, and disturbs the comfortable. 