MOST South Africans indulge in food containing too much sugar and carbohydrates, and not enough protein, leading to many either being overweight or underweight.This is according to a study funded by the Centre of Excellence in Food Security which found many South Africans consume high-energy but nutrient-poor foods.The study conducted by the University of Pretoria s Professor Hettie Sch&ouml;nfeldt, who worked with colleagues from the University of Cape Town and the Human Sciences Research Council to review dietary studies. This was in a bid to attempt to portray typical adult dietary intakes and to assess possible dietary deficiencies.Using online data and data from libraries, the researchers reviewed the diets of adults and children between 2000 and 2015.Sch&ouml;nfeldt said what they discovered was a cause for concern as South Africans daily intake wasn t in line with the recommendations of the World Health Organisation (WHO).She explained that while WHO recommended average energy intake for adults to lead a healthy and active lifestyle was 8 700 kilojoules (kJ), South African males were consuming between 6 100 kJ to 13 974 kJ, and females between 5 400 kJ and 11 978 kJ. This indicates that many South Africans are either underweight or overweight, both of which have serious health implications, added Sch&ouml;nfeldt.According to the organisation, which is a specialised agency of the UN that is concerned with international public health, essential nutrients for humans include protein, carbohydrates, fats and lipids, a range of vitamins, and a host of minerals and trace elements. Many countries, including South Africa, use the WHO s recommended dietary guidelines for populations across the world. However, Sch&ouml;nfeldt said the reality in South Africa was most people cannot afford to eat according to WHO standards.He said although the fat intake was within WHO recommendations, the type of fat consumed was also a concern. The study also found most South Africans eat refined foods, which are items that have been processed to look and taste differently than in its original state. For example, many white breads have had the nutrient-rich bran and germ removed from the grain, leaving the bread with very little nutritional value, Sch&ouml;nfeldt explained.She added that the findings revealed that adults diets have also changed, even in rural, traditionally subsistence-based communities as they now eat energy-rich but nutrient-poor foods. Sch&ouml;nfeldt said these diets can lead to obesity and Type 2 Diabetes and that more education on the value of healthy but affordable foods is urgently needed.Dietician Lila Bruk noted the findings of the study but said that the absolute value of the amount of protein South Africans eat was too little but rather proportionately too much focus was placed on starch. Ideally when one looks at one s plate, half should be vegetables, a quarter protein and a quarter starch. However, Bruk said for many South Africans, starch makes up the biggest proportion of their plate. One only needs about a palm-sized piece of protein and a fist-sized portion of starch per meal. Despite her comments, Bruk agreed South Africans do eat too much sugar including soft drinks, sweets, cakes, biscuits and processed foods which she said are extremely common and are loaded with sugar.