The Black Management Forum Western Cape (BMF WC) will be hosting the Black Excellence Awards (BEA) on Friday. This is a prestigious ceremony designed to showcase outstanding business owners, industry experts, professionals, students and entrepreneurial success stories in our province. The awards recognise the relentless efforts individuals and companies make to succeed in their careers and professions. The awards will be held at the Cape Sun Hotel.BMF Western Cape is fortunate to have former deputy chief justice Dikgang Moseneke as the keynote speaker at the awards. His story epitomises the struggles faced by black professionals.All nominees have provided us with a strong narrative and compelling reasons to be recognised in their respective fields. We are recognising those who are making a telling contribution in our society through their efforts in business, and student activism.The awards recognise individuals who have an excellent record in governance and accountability as important pillars that can effect economic prosperity which we believe is a precursor to economic transformation. The nominations will also consider issues such as innovation, entrepreneurial flair, diverse and transformative strategies that have held up against ever-changing and often hostile environments.We honour black individuals and organisations for their influential contribution that many Africans can identify with. BMF Western Cape has created a platform that shows appreciation of these individuals and businesses which not only stand as a beacon of hope, but also as a tower of inspiration for generations to come.The showcasing of black excellence could not have come at a better time in South Africa considering the economic and political turmoil. We need to take time to reflect on various aspects which have played an integral role in placing South Africa on the global map. We have to look at the roles of the nominees in that process, the sacrifices made in transforming South Africa and the socio-economic impact of their efforts.We also take the opportunity to showcase the objectives that BMF strives to achieve for existing members and potential members from a value-add proposition. We believe BMF Members have a role to play in influencing a new course of action that will bring about development and socio-economic equity in our country. BMF is grateful to Sanlam, Absa, Vunani Fund Managers and Independent Media, who have come on board as partners to make the event possible. It is through strategic partnerships like these that developmental organisations like Black Management Forum can make a meaningful impact to their constituents. Bakahoukoutela is BMF Marketing Manager in the Western Cape