ISSUES pertaining to economic growth and saving thousands of jobs in the volatile poultry sector are set to form part of discussions during the cabinet lekgotla, which started yesterday.Minister in the Presidency for Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Jeff Radebe said President Jacob Zuma had convened the lekgotla in order to review the government s medium-term strategy.It follows the ANC national executive committee lekgotla held in Irene outside Pretoria last week.Radebe said the deliberations and conclusions of the ruling party s lekgotla would play a very critical role in the decisions of the cabinet lekgotla that are being held at the Sefako Makgatho Presidential Guesthouse in Pretoria. The information that came out of the ANC lekgotla is part of the agenda today (Wednesday), he told journalists on the margins of the lekgotla yesterday.At its lekgotla, the former liberation movement discussed strategies that would drive the radical transformation of the economy, among other issues.Yesterday, Radebe said there would be a presentation of the medium-term strategic planning. It s going to be followed by progress on the Nine Point Plan, the Infrastructure Development Plan as well as the National Intelligence Estimates, said Radebe.He has been touted as among possible candidates to succeed Zuma when he steps down as ANC leader in December.The four-day lekgotla, which sets the tone for Zuma s State of the Nation Address (Sona), would focus strongly on boosting South Africa s economic growth, a statement from the Presidency said on Tuesday. Given the continuing of slow economic growth, the lekgotla will also deliberate strongly on efforts to reignite economic growth, working with other social partners, taking forward the achievements of the past year in promoting unity in action in protecting the economy and advancing growth in a difficult economic environment. The theme of Sona 2017 will revolve around the 100th anniversary of Oliver Tambo s birth. Tambo was the longest- serving president of the ANC. In this regard, the deliberations in the cabinet lekgotla will be informed by the uplifting legacy of OR Tambo, based on building a truly united, non-racial, non-sexist, democratic and prosperous South Africa, Zuma s office said. Discussions are expected to reflect strongly on radical socio-economic transformation to uplift the poor and the working class and to move the country forward to prosperity and true reconciliation, which is what OR Tambo strove for. Several other activities would take place prior to and after Sona.Zuma said he and members of the inter-ministerial committee on investment promotion would host a pre-Sona investor briefing. The session will be attended by CEOs, labour leaders and the leadership of business organisations. The session will contribute to the preparations of the Sona and further promote unity in action towards inclusive growth. The day after Sona, the annual presidential golf challenge, hosted by the Department of Public Service and Administration, would be held. The proceeds of the tournament usually go to a charity of the president s choice. This year s proceeds will go to the Jacob Zuma RDP Education Trust.