The EFF has vowed to approach the Constitutional Court to force Speaker of Parliament Baleka Mbete to institute disciplinary charges against President Jacob Zuma.The latest move by the EFF follows their failed bid to prevent Zuma from delivering his State of the Nation address last Thursday, alleging he was an illegitimate president who the Constitutional Court had found had violated his oath of office. In the past, the EFF used similar tactics to block Zuma from addressing Parliament, and in most cases, Mbete had to rope in parliamentary security services to kick them out of Parliament.However, on Thursday, the clashes between the EFF MPs and parliamentary security services guards took a violent turn, with dozens of MPs subjected to assaults by the guards. EFF leader Julius Malema yesterday alleged that these guards squeezed his private parts and attacked pregnant and sick women before kicking them out of Parliament on Mbete s orders. He said the events of Thursday prompted them to approach the Constitutional Court because Mbete and ANC members were failing to implement the March 31, 2016 ruling against Zuma.The Constitutional Court found that Zuma failed to uphold, defend and respect the constitution as the supreme law of the land. Because of this, Jacob Zuma is not eligible to be president of South Africa. Treating and working with Jacob Zuma like he is president is also a violation of the constitution, and the National Assembly is not constitutionally allowed to vote wrong into right even if it were to be by all of its 400 members, Malema said. We have taken a decision to approach the court to force Parliament to institute either disciplinary charges or impeachment proceedings against Zuma. The Constitutional Court judgment must serve as prima facie evidence to the effect that Zuma should not be holding office. Malema said his party was of the view that Zuma must appear before a parliamentary committee to give reasons why he failed to abide by the remedial actions of former public protector Thuli Madonsela on her findings on security upgrades at his Nkandla homestead. He misled Parliament by saying he received a bank loan to build his Nkandla home when he did not, Malema said.He also announced his party had reported some of the parliamentary security services members to the Independent Police Investigative Directorate, claiming some of them were members of the SAPS.