South Africa is not backing down on the nuclear programme and the cabinet will soon look at the companies bidding for the tender.Energy Minister Tina Joemat-Pettersson said yesterday during a briefing by ministers in the international co-operation, trade and security cluster, that nuclear was part of the government s energy mix programme. She said Eskom issued a request for proposals in December last year and they would look at the bidders. Twenty companies have expressed interest in the programme. Once we have information, we will take it to the cabinet, said Joemat-Pettersson.The nuclear programme, worth R1 trillion, has led to criticisms against the government. Opposition parties in Parliament have called for the government to scrap it.Environmental groups have taken the government to court over the nuclear programme. They have complained about the alleged secrecy around it, and the true cost of the project.During his State of the Nation address, President Jacob Zuma reiterated that nuclear was part of the country s energy mix programme. Last year, the Department of Energy told Parliament that the first nuclear power plant would not come on stream in 2022 as expected.However, the indications pointed to the fact that it would come on stream in 2032. This is a 10-year delay that has forced the government to shift the deadline.It has denied that the nuclear project would bankrupt the state. It said it would look at the bidders and how much it could afford. Joemat-Pettersson said yesterday that Eskom would now procure nuclear on behalf of the government.Eskom went ahead with the RFP last December, despite objections from opposition benches in the national legislature. Zuma said last year that nuclear would be implemented at a scale and cost that was affordable to South Africa.He said they would not go beyond what they could afford. He said nuclear was necessary to ensure energy security in the country. Ministers in the international co-operation, trade and security cluster also backed Zuma s radical economic transformation plan. Zuma touched on the plan during his speech on Thursday last week.Environmental Affairs Minister Edna Molewa said they would work with the economic cluster to ensure there was radical economic transformation in the patterns of ownership in companies.She said if investors came into the country, they must implement local content. Trade, industry and economic development could not do this alone.