As a teenager, house DJ Kyle Cassim had a premo nition that he would have his own radio show on 5FM one day.It was a dream that he carried with him into his adult life, and last year, he secured the popular Friday night slot at the station. From the age of 13 I ve always wanted to have my own show on 5FM; it was a dream. I ve always said it would happen one day, I m not going to chase it, it s going to happen when it needs to happen, he said.The Benoni-born Cassim said he received a call from 5FM in September, and a month later he was on air as a candidate to join The Weekender5 group.While he had no experience of hosting a show on a commercial radio station, his strong personality and love for music have seen him flourish. People are surprised when they hear me on radio and find out that it s a first for me, but I think it s something that comes naturally because it s a big passion of mine, Cassim said.The 27-year-old s love affair with all things music began when he realised he wanted to be on radio. And he has his father, who was a disco DJ at the time, to thank for his passion. I came from a disco background, and when my dad bought me DJ equipment, I became the local DJ in Benoni and would play at school events, weddings and parties, Cassim said.He studied law for four years before he dropped out to pursue his passion for music.Cassim said he received his big break when he played at the then annual H2O parties at Wild Waters in Boksburg, where thousands of party-goers would attend.He has since travelled around the world and has kept crowds on their feet in party capitals such as Ibiza, London and Amsterdam.However, Cassim said South Africa was still one of his favourite destinations to perform. You can t beat home; our people are crazy in South Africa, and people around the world don t realise it, he added. They think because we are a Third World country that we don t have the clubs or the crowds, but we have that and so much more, and DJs from around the world love it here. Cassim said artists from across the globe love the South African party scene so much that many return and perform for free.As he settles into his duties at 5FM and deejays some of the hottest parties around the country, Cassim plans to reach new heights.He wants eventually to host his own television talk show and explore topics close to his heart, and he also wants to keep growing his radio show. The show is still a baby. I m still nurturing it and I want it to grow into the biggest dance show in the southern hemisphere, Cassim said.