A defence witness who gave damning testimony during the trial of former intelligence boss Richard Mdluli and his co-accused, Mthembeni Mthunzi, was clutching at straws when he failed to explain why his testimony was contrary to audio played in the high court in Joburg yesterday. Warrant Officer Solomon Mashamaite s testimony was attacked by Prosecutor Deon Barnard when audio of a consultation between Mashamaite, prosecutors and the Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation (the Hawks) was played in court. Mashamaite, stationed at the Dawn Park police station in Ekurhuleni, told the court that in October 1998 he received a call about an attempted murder in Windmill Park. He was the officer who took a statement from Mdluli s former lover Tshidi Buthelezi s friend Alice Manana. He said he found Manana bleeding from her upper left breast. She claimed she had been shot. She could not describe her attackers, but had an idea of who may have been behind the attack. Mdluli and Mthunzi are on trial for allegedly intimidating, kidnapping and assaulting Buthelezi s lover, Oupa Ramogibe. They have pleaded not guilty. Mashamaite had already told the court that 10 years later he was subpoenaed by the Hawks to their offices concerning the statement he had written. He told the court that the consultation did not end well because there was a woman named Kholeka who had forced him to admit that Mdluli was implicated in Manana s attack, and also threatened to charge him with defeating the ends of justice. When the audio was played in court, it disputed some of the testimony which was given by Mashamaite. In his initial testimony, he said he was asked if he knew Mdluli. But that alleged conversation was also never heard on the audio. Barnard asked Mashamaite if he still insisted that all the things he claimed took place during consultation were the truth. Yes, it s the truth, they did happen, he said. When did they happen? asked Barnard. Mashamaite responded: During consultation. Barnard asked Mashamaite to slot in the alleged conversions in the sequence of the audio. Mashamaite continued by adding new information to his initial testimony, but struggled to answer some of the questions without pausing. Please be patient with me, I want to think, he said. When he was asked to indicate when the alleged altercation between him and Kholeka started, he said he wasn t sure but it was during the consultation. In the audio Mashamaite was heard telling Kholeka that she was taking things personally. He explained that he was saying that because he was already feeling intimidated by her. When I said to Kholeka that you take things personally, there were things that Kholeka was saying in Xhosa, there were things that she was not speaking in English, said Mashamaite. I don t know if that part is captured in the record. As the cross-examination continued, Mashamaite struggled to answer without contradicting himself. African News Agency