The DA could take the Speaker Baleka Mbete to court if evidence showed police were used to eject the EFF from the National Assembly on Thursday.DA federal executive chairman James Selfe said yesterday they were reviewing footage to determine if the police were involved.Party leaders were briefing the media after their federal council meeting in Cape Town.EFF MPs were ejected from the House during chaos at President Jacob Zuma s State of the Nation Address.On Friday, the ANC said Parliament should press criminal charges against the EFF for attacking Parliament s protection officers.Selfe said they were seeking evidence that police were once again used to forcefully remove EFF MPs. We got categorical assurance that there would be no military on the precinct and yet we have photographic evidence of heavily armed military officers who were on the premises, and it is quite clear that either the presiding officers lied to us or those officers were there illegally. We have also have evidence to suggest that there were regular police officers who changed uniform on Thursday afternoon into white shirts and were part of the white shirt brigade that evicted various members form the house. If that is proven it will be in defiance of the Western Cape High Court order and we will seek a contempt of court order against the Speaker and other authorities in the Western Cape. In the same briefing, DA leader Mmusi Maimane said the party would challenge government s Hate Speech Bill because it trampled on the right to free speech.Maimane said although the DA supported the need to curb racial hatred in the country, it would challenge the Prevention and Combating of Hate Crimes and Hate Speech Bill and introduce their own bill.Maimane said the current bill did not set a balance between fighting hate crime while protecting the constitutional right to free speech. Instead it introduced unjustifiable limitations to the freedom of expression. The Bill goes well beyond the limitation of rights clause in Section 36 of the Constitution, and for this reason we believe it will certainly not pass constitutional muster and will be struck down. Selfe said that from discussions over the weekend, the party was also considering approaching the courts over the Electoral Act to make sure that the Independent Electoral Commission delivered free and fair elections. We are also considering whether or not we should approach a court to determine whether the Electoral Act is sufficient to fulfil the IEC s constitutional requirements to guarantee a free and fair election. It is in the Constitution that they deliver a free and fair election and we are not convinced at this stage that the IEC, as is presently constituted, has the power or ability to deliver an election which is truly free and fair. So what we would want to do is to approach a court to determine what are the appropriate conditions that would guarantee such a free and fair election and require Parliament to pass such legislation. 