Land activists and small-scale farmers held a demonstration in Caledon voicing their anger over the Theewaterskloof Municipality's impounding of livestock and the lack of common-age land for poor farmers.NGO s Inyanda National Land Movement, The Trust for Community Outreach (TCOE), their affiliated organisations and rural small-scale farmers were given permission to hold a picket 100m from the Caledon Magistrates' Court where their memorandum was read out.Yesterday, small-scale farmers from Grabouw, Stellenbosch, Greyton, Riviersonderend, Barrydale and Robertson came out to support each other. Inyanda regional co-ordinator Henry Michaels said they weren't allowed to submit their memorandum with representatives in the municipality and instead sent it by e-mail. We gave the municipality seven days to respond to our demands, which will have a radical impact on this region and the farming industry as a whole. There must be a platform where small-scale farmers can address the land issues with national and provincial officials. He said an audit and agreements between the municipality and commercial farmers must be made public in order to address the land need of the small-scale farmers.Vukani Farmers Association chairperson Bonginkosi Bongela said 25 small-scale farmers from their Riversonderend organisation joined the picket. We also demand leases to poor farmers be a minimum of 10 years, as this allows us to build something sufficient for ourselves and our children. Poor farmers will never thrive if they do not have access to the best lands in these regions. Caledon horse farmer Anthony Sampson is embroiled in a court battle against the municipality for the release of his six impounded horses also joined the picket.Sampson s case has been postponed until today due to a personal matter of his legal representative.Municipality spokesperson Stiffie Cronje said the municipality holds no knowledge of any demands or request for discussions given by the demonstrators. Their application for a picket did not include the submission of a memorandum as this was not the purpose of the demonstration. We hold no knowledge of any agreements being made. 