A 22-YEAR-OLD man was covered in blood and wielding a knife when police found him alongside the N2 before arresting him on suspicion of the murder of his mother and twin sister.Vuyo Dondashe was arrested on Saturday afternoon after he allegedly knifed his twin, Vuyokazi, and mother, Nomsa Mngoma, 60, to death in their shack in Lwandle, Strand, at about four o clock in the morning.Yesterday, when the Cape Times visited the small corrugated iron shack which is the family residence, relatives took turns cuddling Vuyokazi s four-month-old daughter, who has been left orphaned by the double murder.The twins cousin, Nomonde Zondiwe, said the family were shocked by the murder and were waiting for more information from police as to what exactly happened.Zondiwe said apparently Nomsa and Vuyokazi had been sleeping when Dondashe entered and fatally attacked them.There was a five-year-old witness to the murder, she said, for whom the family is seeking counselling. He (Vuyo) is refusing to speak to the police. They found him along the N2, he still had the murder weapon on him and his clothes were full of blood. What we are all concerned about now is the baby we don t know who will take care of her in future. For now we will take turns to care for her, Zondiwe said.Yesterday, mourners were spilling out of the tiny 2x3m shack the family shared.Many were crying and too distraught to speak to the media.Mngoma was the only one who worked, and Zondiwe said they hadn t starting planning for a funeral yet.Social Development MEC Albert Fritz s spokesperson, Sihle Ngobese, said children who experienced trauma received counselling. As per the Children s Act of 2005, social workers will proceed to finding an appropriate guardian for the child, either with existing relatives or in temporary safe care through our dedicated network of volunteer Safety Parents, Ngobese said.Police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana said the community had assisted in the arrest of the suspect by tipping them off to his whereabouts. In the early hours of Saturday, a 22-year-old man arrived at his home in Lwandle and found his mother and twin sister sleeping. The suspect allegedly stabbed both victims before fleeing the scene on foot. Both victims, aged 60 and 22, died due to their injuries. Motive is unknown at this stage, said Rwexana.She said a case of double murder was being investigated and Dondashe would appear in court once charged.Cluster commander Major-General Johan Brand commended the community for their help and said it was important that they were proactive in helping protect their community. A partnership between the police and the community is crucial, and their role must be acknowledged in the arrest, Brand said.Ward councillor Simthembile Mfecane was at the residence yesterday, and offered support to the family. He said he would today assist securing counselling. No one knows why the twin did what he did, Mfecane said.The twins aunt, Vuyelwa Zondiwe, said she and other relatives had been called by Mngoma s landlords on Saturday morning, and had immediately gone to the house. [email&#160;protected]