As the parliamentary ad hoc committee probing SABC affairs moves towards concluding its work, it remains focused on ensuring that it takes to task those who gave conflicting evidence at its hearings.This emerged when the committee met yesterday to consider the responses from the affected parties to the findings contained in the draft report.The committee has promised to throw the book not only at the lawyers for the SABC, but also at those who lied to the committee.At a meeting yesterday, the committee heard that only four written submissions had been received in response to its draft report, chairperson Vincent Smith said.Among those who made submissions are the group of eight SABC journalists who testified before the committee and former SABC acting chief executive Phil Molefe. We will do research on all the submissions received as they come. The closing date is 5pm on Thursday (tomorrow),&quot; Smith said. &quot;Anything that arrives post-5pm on Thursday, you probably will not have sight of because we have given people 14 days. The members of the committee, whose work resumed yesterday, are expected to receive a document on the legal advice on the responses and covering several issues.However, it became apparent at the meeting that the committee members eyes were firmly on the conflicting evidence given by those who testified before the committee. From a legal perspective, we might need to obtain advice where we have differing versions,&quot; said the ACDP s Steve Swart.&quot;We have not taken time to ascertain who is telling the truth . That is going be a challenge when you have people disputing the versions that have been put before us. The ANC s Juliana Kilian said instances of conflicting evidence by those who testified should be reflected in the report.The party's Makhosi Khoza said that where there was a dispute of material facts, additional primary sources would be needed.She also said it was critical that legal opinion be obtained on the status of the memorandum of incorporation (MOI). I m saying that because that MOI appears to be enforced and implemented as we speak,&quot; she said. &quot;We need to have something that is concrete on that score from our legal team. Smith said they had already written to the communications committee to ascertain how the SABC funded its court cases after they received information that the public broadcaster had an insurance policy .He made these comments as members raised concerns about the SABC launching an appeal application against the Western Cape High Court, which ruled that Hlaudi Motsoeneng should not hold any position at the SABC.