A new centre to meet the needs of all school-going children who suffer from learning or behavioural difficulties will be opened in Gardens later this week.The Growing Minds Learning and Therapy Centre, which opens its doors tomorrow, will also host multi-age classrooms of Grade R to Grade 3 for pupils who display symptoms associated with ADHD, ADD, Sensory Processing Disorders, Dyslexia, Dyspraxia, Anxiety and Developmental Delays. The centre aims to meet the needs of all school-going children who suffer from learning or behavioural difficulties by providing a holistic and integrated approach to therapy and support. The centre hosted an open day at the weekend. The aim is to help children who are struggling to reach their full potential in a mainstream school, and who need individualised learning or smaller environments, said centre head Denise Pape. The focus of the school was to create Curriculum Assessment Policy Statements-aligned classrooms with each child on an individualised differentiated learning programme, she said. The small classes also allowed the teacher to accommodate the different learning styles of each child, as well finding ways to keep each child motivated and striving for success. By having differentiated learning programmes, we can set realistic, achievable goals for each child and a carefully devised plan of action for the long term. In addition, we will also offer holistic therapies and extra tuition on site to support them, Pape said. The centre has also been structured with different learning spaces adapted to the child. The children will have various workspace and seating options that cater best to their way of learning. The centre will also cater for those children who, for medical or physical reasons, are unable to attend school regularly, with a designated classroom allowing those pupils to work in a nurturing environment, on their own curriculum, at their own pace with their own tutor or facilitator. Creating an inclusive environment, where children are encouraged to learn, and shown how to do so, is essential to success. The classroom must foster growth physically, emotionally and mentally this is what we will continue to strive for, Pape said. For more information contact Pape at [email&#160;protected] or visit www.growingminds.capetown