The government has consistently refused the Commission for the Promotion and Protection of the Rights of Cultural, Religious and Linguistic Communities (CRL) funding to establish the national hearings into the deaths at initiation schools. This is according to CRL chairperson Thoko Mkhwanazi-Xaluva as the commission yesterday announced the launch of the hearings into the deaths of young people at initiation schools. The hearings, which will be conducted in Gauteng, Eastern Cape, Limpopo, Mpumalanga, Western Cape and Free State, were triggered by the spike in deaths of initiates. According to the commission, there were 101 deaths in 2015, and last yearthere were 78. We are not funded adequately for do a full-on investigation. This is not like you are doing an investigation of a particular tender that went wrong,&quot; Mkhwanazi-Xaluva said. &quot;We are looking at the system nationally, that has fallen apart. We have been trying to save money to do this since we started. I can only account for what happened from 2014 when we started, she said. Mkhwanazi-Xaluva said the body could no longer sit and fold its hands and say we do not have money . With or without money, and government has consistently refused to give us money, Parliament has consistently refused to give us money, we are going to do it because the situation is getting worse. When other Chapter 9 institutions say they need money do a certain investigation, they give them money. When we say young people are dying, you know people in rural areas do not matter, she said. The commission said it would investigate the causes of the deaths, whether post-mortems had been conducted and if anyone had been arrested and jailed. We also want to find out from government why are they not moving, what are the police doing, the National Prosecuting Authority and the health department along with traditional leaders themselves?&quot;No one should die in an initiation school, said Mkhwanazi-Xaluva. The CRL said it noted with concern the recent deaths of four initiates in the Western Cape.