The level 3B water restrictions imposed by the City of Cape Town has meant many businesses, country estates and entities are using creative ways to save water. Coca-Cola Peninsula Beverages (CCPB) Safety Health Environment and Quality Manager Johan Breytenbach said they achieved significant results. Between 2004 and 2015, we halved our water use ratio and reduced the effluent use ratio at the Parow manufacturing plant by 68 percent. These water savings are the result of targeted adaptations to our processes that make production more sustainable, said Breytenbach. He said their many measures included foot-operated hand wash basins, water saving nozzles on hoses and as of February washing all company vehicles on-site stopped. Cape Chamber of Commerce president Janine Myburgh said:&nbsp; Our situation is tenuous as the Western Cape neither has particularly fertile soil nor an abundant water supply. The Chamber s role is not to name or punish offenders of water wastage, but to serve as a catalyst for solutions that are in the best interest of businesses in the region, said Myburgh. Gardening and plants retailer Stodels' five garden centres has saved 35 percent on their water usage, said managing director Nick Stodel. We also pass these tips on to our customers who are keen to continue to adapt their gardening while being mindful of water usage. We used to water our plants three times a day but now, having introduced more effective methods, we were able to bring this down to once a day, said Stodel. He said some of their staff attended training sessions and initiatives includes pooling water which is reused or dunking systems where excess water is redirected for outdoor plants. Steenberg Estate manager John Sterrenberg said 21 years ago their developers had the foresight to fund and install a pipeline from the Cape Flats Waste Water Works, piping treated effluent to the estate and golf club. The Steenberg supply is fed into a holding dam on the estate which is specifically constructed to hold sufficient water to supply the irrigation needs of the golf course and residential properties on the estate. At this point the effluent supply is subjected to a further 'bio-remediation' process before being pumped out onto the estate and golf course, said Sterrenberg. He said with no strain was placed on the city s fresh water supply, and they still practice separating the times for irrigating. Landscaping artist Matthew Gregan said: We dug a borehole at one of the country estates recently, which is a very expensive process. The water will be used for irrigation predominantly, but we have a plumber who will test its suitability for human consumption, said Gregan. He also advocates for the planting of more indigenous plants, including fynbos as the more exotic plants will not survive current conditions. [email&#160;protected]