Reports of a Tshwane ANC councillor s involvement in the running of an NGO for domestic violence victims, which housed some patients from Life Esidimeni Health Centres, was nothing more than a misrepresentation of the facts, the ANC Greater Tshwane region said yesterday.ANC councillor Nosipho Tyobeka-Makeke and SAPS Major-General Sandra Malebe-Thema were allegedly involved in an NGO operating at unlicensed premises.According to a report by DA health spokesperson Jack Bloom, the Re-Bafenyi Victim Empowerment Centre, based in Atteridgeville, was allocated more than 100 psychiatric patients from Life Esidimeni Health, despite its primary purpose being to service victims of domestic violence and abuse.Malebe-Thema was listed as the executive chairperson of the NGO, while Tyobeka-Makeke, a former MMC for sports, recreation, arts and culture in the city, was a committee member, Bloom said. In November I pointed out that the Re-Bafenyi facility in Hennops River was blatantly contravening municipal by-laws according to a report by the Tshwane health and social development department, which investigated the NGO after complaints received, he said. The health ombudsman found neither of the two facilities were operating with legal licences, and patients had been transferred elsewhere. Bloom said he suspected that money was the motivation for the organisation's NGO taking psychiatric patients despite not being able to care for them.The NGO was allegedly paid R2 700 for each patient a month. As a result, it was paid R270 000 a month. It is shocking that a senior ANC councillor and a police general are involved in a dodgy NGO with unlicensed premises in which one patient died, possibly from neglect, he said.The Hennops River centre has 59 beneficiaries, while Phelindaba, also known as Schuverberg, housed 60 beneficiaries.Christopher Mogwarane, 56, apparently died at the Re-Bafenyi centre in Hennops River. His family said he appeared to be malnourished and not receiving medication. There should be an investigation into where the money flowed to and who personally benefited at all the NGOs where Esidimeni patients were placed. Criminal charges should be pursued in cases where money was diverted into private pockets while patients were neglected and their lives placed at risk, said Bloom.Malebe-Thema resigned from the police in 2013 after charges of misconduct, but was re-employed after acting national police commissioner General Khomotso Phahlane took office in 2015.ANC Tshwane caucus spokesperson Lesego Makhubela said information of Tyobeka-Makeke s involvement in the NGO had been misrepresented.Makhubela said the DA was on a campaign to demonise the ANC and its representatives. Tyobeka-Makeke is a voluntary board member of the Re-Bafenyi Victim Empowerment Centre, which deals with abused women and children and victims of assault and rape. She has nothing to do with mental health, said Makhubela.He said the NGO was registered under two names and he had additionally spoken to the chairperson of the NGO, who confirmed that the councillor's only role was in the victim empowerment centre.Makhubela maintained this stance despite the NGO s profile listing Tyobeka-Makeke as a committee member.Efforts to contact Malebe-Thema were not successful.