THE DA has expressed little interest in the strategic document allegedly penned by the ANC to topple its administration in Tshwane.The document, titled ANC (Tshwane) lekgotla, October 2016, Baseline document for strategy &amp; tactics (effective opposition) , which The Star has seen, listed questions for discussion aimed at bringing down the DA administration led by executive mayor Solly Msimanga.Some of the questions included When can/will the minority Msimanga administration fall? , What exploitable factors can be used to accelerate the toppling of the DA? , Deciding between confrontation and contestation in council? Or chair tossing vs argument-making under provocation? , and what are the DA electoral campaigning strengths? The document stated that elections were lost and won not on polling day, but between elections. The results of the 3 August (2016 municipal elections) surprised the DA itself .It also called for the challenging of the moral and legal basis of the DA agenda of tabled items (in council) , and to throttle lawfully and with the directed weight of public outrage at the roll-out of the neo-liberal agenda .Yesterday, ANC Tshwane spokesperson Teboho Joala told The Star that the document didn t belong to the ruling party. He said that if it was their document, it would have been signed by the party secretary, and be written on the ANC s letterhead.Joala said they had their own strategies and tactics to deal with the opposition, which wouldn t undermine the very democracy that we fought for .DA Gauteng provincial legislature caucus whip Khume Ramulifho maintained that the document was the ANC s. They are planning to disrupt the DA government in Tshwane. But we re not much worried about their plans because we have a job to do. We made a commitment to voters. We are not going to jeopardise the mandate they gave us. Ramulifho said the document had given them a good sign that we are on the right track and that come 2019, we will be able to win Gauteng with good numbers. The division within the ANC won t come to an end any time soon. @luyolomkentane