Former Australia lock Dan Vickerman has died aged 37, his former club the Waratahs have announced.The former Brumbies and Waratahs player, who made 63 appearances for Australia, died at his family home in Sydney and is survived by wife Sarah and two sons. No details of the cause of death have been disclosed. The Cape Town-born forward, who spent a season at the Premiership side Northampton, retired from the game in 2012, with his last international appearance coming in the semi-final of the 2011 Rugby World Cup.The former Brumbies and Waratahs player had been working in commercial real estate since calling time on his playing career. He remained involved in the game through his work for the Rugby Union Players Association.As tributes came pouring in from across the sport, the RFU paid their respects. England coach Eddie Jones paid tribute to a &quot;wonderfully committed team player&quot;.Jones, who coached Australia and the Brumbies in his homeland and gave him his Test debut in 2002, said: &quot;On behalf of the RFU and myself, I would like to send my condolences to Dan Vickerman's family, Sarah and the two kids. He was a wonderfully-committed team player and a good guy. He will be sorely missed by the rugby community.&quot; Nathan Sharpe, the former Wallaby who played alongside Vickerman in the second row, said: I had my arm around you for most of our playing days brother. No words can express the sadness. Jeremy Paul, who played with Vickerman at the Brumbies and in the national side, said he was struggling to comprehend the sudden loss. He s going to be sorely missed, and at 37 years of age it s just really shocking and it s pretty hard to take in actually, Paul said on Fox Sports News. He was one of those great characters and you could always count on Vick saying something really dry with his humour because that s just the kind of guy that he was. Rugby Union Players' Association chief executive Ross Xenos said in a statement that appeared on the Waratahs' official website: &quot;On behalf of all players, we extend our deepest sympathies to Dan's young family at this difficult time. We are truly shocked and united in our despair.&quot;Dan was universally respected by his peers and the rugby community during and beyond his playing days. Since retiring, he was very generous in giving back to the game through coaching and voluntary roles supporting players' off-field development.&quot;Ex-Springbok Victor Matfield said he always enjoyed playing against Vickerman, who was a real competitor and a great guy , while Quade Cooper said he was grateful to have played alongside him.The All Blacks were among those to pay tribute on Sunday, tweeting: The All Blacks join the rugby family in mourning the passing of former Wallabies lock Dan Vickerman. Rest in Peace. 