Cape Town Schalk Burger Snr has lashed out at his farmworkers after he was exposed in the Daily Voice for allegedly underpaying them.In a shocking rant, the father of Springbok rugby player Schalk Burger, calls one farmworker mal (crazy) for suggesting he pay them a minimum wage, telling his workers he will pay them as he sees fit .The 28-minute recording was secretly made by a worker and sent to Daily Voice.On Thursday, four Department of Labour inspectors arrived at Burger s wine estate, Welbedacht in Wellington, to investigate the workers claims.Burger has also been accused of unfair labour practices as he only pays workers for the amount of grapes they pick and not hours worked. The Daily Voice is in possession of a payroll sheet which shows workers are paid R3.75 for every crate of grapes they fill.The labour department confirmed this is in contravention of national policy, which states all farmworkers casual or permanent not be paid less than minimum wage. On Tuesday afternoon, Burger scolded his workers for exposing him in a meeting.This after it was revealed Burger paid six of his workers between R42 and R94 wages for last week. According to labour laws, the minimum wage for farmworkers is R641.32 per week, or R128 for a nine-hour day.The workers protested outside his house on Monday and called the Daily Voice.Burger first claimed he had nothing to do with paying wages, adding they were underpaid because they were probably lazy and sleeping under the trees . Schalk Burger Snr is the father of Springbok flank Picture: Daily Voice But after Daily Voice emailed him a copy of a salary slip, he changed his tune, blaming his accountant and a computer glitch.The workers confirmed more monies were paid into their bank accounts, but not the full amounts.In the recording, Burger can be heard responding to a complaint from a woman who says she is being paid too little.Burger says: Jy is die ene wat die minste sny, dit is hoekom jy nie geld kry nie.&quot;The worker replies: Ek gee nie om nie, ek werk, (maar) daar is nie altyd druiwe nie . Burger responds: Hoekom kry die een meer en jy kry dertig persent? Want jy is sleg. The woman, who is a piece worker or casual replies: Meneer kan nie s&ecirc; ek is sleg nie. He continues, calling the woman mal (crazy) for suggesting she should earn the same as a person picking more than her. Waarom wil jy dieselfde kry as Rena, is jy laf? he says.The sheepish woman answers: Ek moenie dieselfde kry nie, meneer. He threatens another worker, who apparently interrupted him, that he'll put her off the farm. Gaan jy nou stilbly? Ek gaan nie weer een chirp van jou vat nie. Kyk vir my, as jy weer uit jou beurt praat, is jy uit, ons kry dissipline op die plaas, he says.Candice van Reenen, provincial communications officer for the Department of Labour, says this practice is illegal. It doesn t matter if you are a seasonal worker, you must be paid minimum wage. It is not by law to pay via a weighing or kilogram system, says Van Reenen.When asked for comment, Burger claimed the recording was illegal as no one was given permission to record the meeting. You are welcome to come to the farm for an interview with (accountant) Maryann Fourie regarding the payment for production, he said. I do not work with the labourers, their production or targets which are determined by other personnel according to all WIETA (Wine and Agricultural Ethical Trading Association) principles. Labour Department provincial Chief Inspector, David Esau, said the recording will form part of his investigation. He said a full audit would be carried out at Burger s farm.Esau says Burger had two kinds of contracts with workers on the farm, which was against the law. The minimum wage is based on hours worked, which is R14 an hour, he said. The employer has two options, he can pay his worker per hour, or he can give an incentive where he pushes for production. He can pay per bucket, for example, but it must accumulate to the amount for minimum wage. Daily Voice