It could prove difficult for bereaved families of the estimated 94 Life Healthcare Esidimeni patients who died to launch successful civil suits against Gauteng s Health Department.This was the view of legal experts who spoke to The Star this week.Gary Austin of Gary Austin Inc believed the families would not succeed because South Africa s common law only recognised civil suits for applicants who could prove that they would suffer financial strain as a result of the death of a breadwinner caused by negligence. If someone is sitting in a psychiatric hospital, chances are that they aren t working. So, whether patients received negligent treatment or not, they wouldn t be earning a salary and someone wouldn t be able to claim damages, Austin asserted.Asked whether psychological damage would be factored in by the courts if the families sued on the grounds of the trauma caused by the death of their loved ones, Austin, although sympathetic, emphasised that psychological trauma might not work in South African courts. Most people come to me and ask, I took my child to hospital, the hospital treated my child incorrectly, my child died as a result of the ill-treatment and I am now traumatised do I have a case? Ordinarily, I would tell people, No, you don t ,&quot; he said. Unless you can prove the death was so devastating to you that you couldn t work and ended up being a vegetable case, you would not have a case unfortunately. However, his views were countered by private lawyer Nicolette Erasmus, who said that in South Africa s law of delict or a civil law for negligent breach of duty of care leading to loss or harm the right to claim damages was unlimited. (Austin) is correct that you need to prove you have experienced financial loss. But the financial loss arises out of a number of different levels. The important level in this case is constitutional rights. In terms of the constitution, our law guarantees the right to life, the right to healthcare and the right to physical security, she said. What you have here is a violation of constitutional rights. In my view, the Health Department in Gauteng is liable, Erasmus added.Karen Vermaak, of Munro, Flowers and Vermaak Attorneys, also said it was correct that if the deceased mental health patient was not a breadwinner, the dependants will not be able to sue for any loss of support as no such claim would arise. There is, however, the potential to sue for the recovery of the funeral expenses as well as a possible claim for emotional shock, which would be subject to proof. Austin did, however, offer what he said was sage advice for the families, saying they could approach the Health Professions Council of SA (HPCSA) for further recourse. Families can still lodge complaints with the HPCSA, which can fire or even put in jail doctors, hospitals or government (officials) should they be found to have been negligent, he said.