As tropical storm Dineo hit parts of the country yesterday, residents of Hazyview in Mpumalanga expressed their concern about the damage it could inflict. Yesterday, The Star team travelled from Tzaneen in Limpopo to Hazyview in Mpumalanga, weathering the heavy rain and wind as the greatly anticipated storm made its way through the north-eastern part of the country. https://twitter.com/search?q=dineo&amp;src=typd As evening began to fall and downpours increased, Lisson Komane, from Tshabalala, an informal settlement 10km from Hazyview, took his spade and dug a trench around one side of the entrance of his house, while on the other side he piled up tree branches, leaves and sand in a bid to block the water that ran down the dirt road. I was flooded last year and everything got destroyed. I can t let this happen again. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KSeg-210U4M &quot;I m worried about flooding and what these winds will do to my house and to my family, he said.Komane said he has a wife and four children who he needs to protect. I don t know if this will help, but I have no choice. My biggest concern is their safety, he said.Another resident, Olivia Leyane, said the community were freaking out and going crazy with worry . They re saying it could get worse tonight and I m really scared, especially for my twin sister and my parents, the youngster said.Leyane said they were building a house and were concerned that Dineo could destroy it.Spokesperson for the Hazyview police station Constable Duduzile Malibe advised residents to be vigilant and remain in doors during the storm. If you have to leave your home, we urge you to please be extra careful, she said.Spokesperson for the Kruger National Park William Mabasa said the park had temporarily closed gravel roads as a precaution. Remote camps mostly in the north of the park will be temporarily closed, and guests booked in the flagged camps will be moved to safer camps. These closures are necessary to ensure visitors safety, and we would like to advise guests to stick to the tar roads while driving inside the park, he said, adding that guests should remain close to their camps in case the weather worsened.Mabasa said a decision had been taken close all gravel roads in the park for safety reasons. A disaster management team has been set up and periodical updates will be released until the situation improves, he added.Bushbuckridge municipality spokesperson Aubrey Mnisi said they were working together with several other municipalities and stakeholders in the area to keep residents safe. There are temporary shelters that have been set up in case of flooding as well as food and blankets that have been put away to help anyone affected, he said. We have plans in place and we are ready for Dineo, Mnisi added.