A police officer charged with killing his girlfriend after shooting her with his service pistol in 2014 will know his fate today.The witnesses told of a violent domestic relationship between accused Lindani Nakani and Busiswa Centane. Judge Nolwazi Boqwana said Nakani had on the day of the killing, July 3, 2014, told some of the witnesses he shot and killed Centane. Bongeka Mhambi, who worked with Centane at the Home Affairs Refugee Reception Centre, painted a picture of an abusive relationship.Mhambi told the court that Nakani would constantly complain to her that Centane would go to the couple s home long after she had finished work. She further testified that the accused would go to their workplace at the Foreshore where he would argue with his girlfriend.According to Boqwana s summary of judgment, Centane had told Mhambi that Nakani deflated her car tyres once and after they separated he would come to Centane s house in Delft and break the windows, threaten to kill himself and assault her. Mhambi said that Centane had told her on the day she was murdered that she had a gut feeling that Nakani wanted her dead.Nakani s sister, Nomvuyo Centane, said Nakani had gone to Centane s house, asked her to kill her two children and when she refused, placed the gun inside his mouth, but the gun fell on the bed after a scuffle. Nakani s supervisor, Mandlakhe Ntshingila, also told the court that Nakani called him on the day Centane was killed, telling him he killed her. On the day Centane was killed, Nakani told a senior police officer at Delft police station, Jacobus Fredericks, to arrest him because he had killed his girlfriend. When stating his case, Nakani said he acted out of insanity and he could not recall what had happened on the day. It is unfortunate and regrettable, Nakani testified. State prosecutor Moeketsi Moeketsi alleges that when the couple s relationship hit rock bottom they separated, but Nakani would constantly visit Centane and assault, insult and threaten her. Centane applied for an interim protection order two months before she was shot and killed. During the morning of July 3, Centane was sitting in her silver Toyota Yaris when Nakani drove behind her and shot her multiple times and then handed himself to the Delft police station. Judgment continues.