What do you get when you put a marine biologist, an applied mathematician and a software developer together?A custom-made image recognition software package, called Identifin, that gathers precious information about South Africa's elusive great white sharks to better help conserve them.Until now, the lack of standardised information for collecting data on these sharks has seriously hampered efforts to manage and protect them, explains Dr Sara Andreotti, a marine biologist from the botany and zoology department at Stellenbosch University.She would know. Andreotti has spent seven years with her university colleagues and Shark Man Michael Rutzen, of Shark Diving Unlimited, gathering over 5 000 photographic images of the dorsal fins of white sharks along the SA coastline.The trailing edge of the dorsal fin is analogous to a human fingerprint.Last July, their research stirred controversy, revealing there are only 353 to 522 great white sharks left on the country's coastline, 52% fewer than previously estimated.Andreotti explains how she spent the seven years manually developing a database on her computer with information on when and where an individual white shark was sighted. The genetic information was linked to the shark's profile in cases where she was able to collect a biopsy from the shark. It was, at times, a case of trying to memorise which shark is which to avoid sampling the same individual more than once.The process consumed so much of her time that she eventually approached the university's applied mathematics division. Professor Ben Herbst, a specialist in machine learning, and Dr Pieter Holtzhausen, a software engineer, started working on developing an algorithm that would be able to automate this process in a species-specific way. Their research paper, Semi-automated Software for dorsal fin photographic identification of marine species: application to Carcharodon carcharias, was written together with Michael Meyer, a marine scientist from the Department of Environmental Affairs ands, Semi-automated Software for dorsal fin photographic identification of marine species: application to Carcharodon carcharias, was published in the journal Marine Biodiversity last month. We used an algorithmic technique called dynamic time-warping to match the fingerprints The technique is often used in speech recognition software, explains Holtzhausen.Identifin compares a semi-automatically drawn trace of the back edge of the dorsal fin to existing images in the database. The images are then re-arranged and ranked by probability of match. If there's a match, the database photo in the first position will be the correct one.The software uses the complete database for comparing the matches and then organises them in order of similarity, from left to right. There is also an embedded function in the software to create a matrix of the history of recaptures. This information can be used to estimate population numbers, says Andreotti.Now she only needs to download the new photographic identifications from her camera on to a small field laptop and run the software to see if the sharks currently around the boat have been sampled. By knowing which sharks have not been sampled before, we can focus the biopsy collections on them. This saves us both time and money when it comes to genetic analysis in the laboratory. We hope Identifin will offer a solution for the development of a South African and then global adaptive management plan for great white sharks, she says, adding that the researchers plan to adapt Identifin to identify other large marine species.