Joburg mayor Herman Mashaba has instituted an independent forensic investigation into City Power tenders valued at billions of rand in the midst of a verbal war between himself and the ANC Greater Johannesburg region. The investigation, which was announced by the office of the executive mayor late yesterday afternoon, appeared to be in response to a statement by the ANC branch claiming he was set to fire senior managers at the utility. The branch claimed that Mashaba s intention was to remove the managers because they were employed by the ANC administration . The ANC claimed that the mayor had instructed the board of City Power, led by Frank Chikane, to suspend the utility s managing director Sicelo Xulu, with Mashaba allegedly threatening to dissolve the board if this did not happen. According to ANC Greater Johannesburg region spokesperson Jolidee Matongo, on Monday Mashaba instructed the new Joburg city manager, Ndivho Lukhwareni, to dissolve the City Power board. The decision to dissolve the board was resisted by the city manager, who is now under pressure from the Donald Trump-like totalitarian tendencies of Mashaba, said Matongo. The board is now in an unenviable position to either comply with Mashaba s instruction and suspend Xulu, or risk being dissolved for refusing to suspend Xulu. The ANC believes that Lukhwareni will not be able to resist Mashaba s thirst to remove boards of city entities for too long, especially at City Power, he continued. Matongo said Mashaba had pretended to be on a corruption-busting mission, but his interest in City Power was an indication of his true interests . Rumours that Mashaba is in debt also fuelled suspicions about his ruthless pursuit of Xulu, disregarding the need for due process and respect for the country s laws, he said. However, in Mashaba s own statement, he confirmed that he had launched an investigation at the utility following serious allegations and information being disclosed directly to him. This investigation is being conducted by Sizwe Ntsaluba Gobodo Incorporated, one of the top five auditing firms in South Africa. It is essential that this investigation is conducted by an independent and professional auditing firm in order to ensure that its report is free of any political interference or bias. We expect a report to be finalised in the next six weeks and will make its findings and recommendations available to the public, the mayor said in the statement. I find it staggering that the ANC would take interest in investigations into City Power tenders authorised during their term in office. I regard it as an indication that we are looking into the right tenders. This interest and opposition to our fight against corruption in the City of Joburg gives credence to the idea that where there is smoke there is fire. The statement of the ANC begs the question, If there is nothing to hide in this tender, why the level of interest? he said. He said that upon entering office, he had declared corruption as public enemy number one, and he maintained his commitment to rooting it out. I condemn the ANC s distasteful and shameless attack on city manager Ndivho Lukhwareni, someone with such a distinguished career. This career includes serving as the deputy city manager under an ANC administration in Tshwane, said Mashaba. I have a direct message for the ANC: If you have any discomfort in the focus of our investigations, all I can say is please get used to it. I can offer you no comfort, only the assurance that those found guilty of corruption are behind bars and stolen money is recovered. 