INFERTILITY treatment has not been prioritised in South Africa, with limited resources allocated to only two government-funded academic hospitals providing infertility services.This is according to Dr Zozo Nene, a local reproductive medicine specialist, who says that to adequately address the problem of infertility in the country, serious focus needs to be placed on service delivery, training and research.According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), more than 180 million couples in developing countries (one in every four couples) suffer from primary or secondary infertility. In sub-Saharan Africa, infertility is caused by infections in more than 85% of women compared with 33% worldwide.The Infertility Awareness Association of SA (Ifaasa) estimates that one in six couples in the country battle with infertility.The organisation says about a third of infertility cases were due to female factors; a third are due to male factors; and the remaining third are due to a combination of male and female issues.Infertility is a disease of the reproductive system defined by the failure to achieve pregnancy after regular, unprotected sexual intercourse.Nene says patients are diagnosed as being infertile after a period of more than 12 months of trying to conceive if the women are over 35 years of age. In the context of South Africa, well over 70% of the population is reliant on public health services, and the medical training is mostly, if not solely, done in the public health arena both undergraduate, specialisation and super-specialisation. There s a scarcity of fertility specialists and embryologists in both the public and private sector, Nene says.The two government hospitals (Steve Biko Academic Hospital in Pretoria and Groote Schuur Hospital in Cape Town) are aided by the fact that Tygerberg and Universitas hospitals also offer infertility services through public/private partnerships.But even with four public hospitals, it isn t enough. The government must recognise that infertility is a disease. The WHO has defined infertility as a disability (an impairment or function). They (WHO) have declared that access to healthcare for infertility treatment falls under the convention on the rights of persons with disability. A reduction of costs of intervention and increasing access to infertility services across racial boundaries are possible initiatives among others, she says.For years, infertility has been something of a taboo subject, something people hid from the world and didn t talk about. As part of Reproductive Health Month 2017, Ifaasa not only encourages couples to seek help to ensure a proper diagnosis and make an informed decision, but also for the general population to educate themselves about infertility and to remember that pregnancy is a privilege not every couple is afforded.Nene says that among many other misconceptions about infertility is that it s only the problem of the woman .While the cost of infertility treatments differs according to the procedure done, Nene says they range from R5 000 to R80 000 the cheapest being ovulation induction and timed intercourse. The most expensive is intracytoplasmic sperm injection and embryo biopsy.Meggan Zunckel, chief executive of Ifaasa, says all infertile couples who exhibit the warning signs for infertility deserve a full diagnostic investigation with a fertility specialist, no matter what age they present with these warning signs. The reality is that women and men well under 40 are also distracted by the physical, financial and emotional hardships of this disease. Infertility is more than a disease; it is a devastating life crisis which can greatly impact health, relationships, job performance and social interactions, Zunckel points out.Nene advises couples diagnosed with infertility to consider: What the cause of the infertility is, and if it can be treated either surgically or with assisted reproduction technology (ART). If no treatment can be offered to consider: Gamete donation. Surrogacy. Adoption. Or to accept their condition and find ways to move on. They should not delay seeking treatment for infertility from fertility specialists. Financial implications of the treatment. Understand that there is no guarantee. Possibility of failed fertility intervention(s). There is a possibility of medical complications before, during and after the birth for the baby. They must have adequate emotional support. Discuss issues of ownership of embryos should the couple divorce. Understand safer conception options for people living with HIV.