Medical aid schemes are a crime against humanity and should be abolished because they cannot co-exist with the government s proposed National Health Insurance (NHI) scheme, says Dr Kgosi Letlape.The president of the Health Professions Council of SA (HPCSA) was addressing academics and medical professionals at a discussion on whether the NHI White Paper met the human rights objective. He said private medical aids and the Medical Schemes Act should be abolished if the NHI was to provide universal health-care access for all citizens.Letlape was speaking at a public discussion at the University of KwaZulu-Natal in Durban on Friday. There can be no national health if it is not for all of us. You try and engage about NHI with the privileged and they say: Don t touch my medical aid. Medical aid is a crime against humanity. It is an atrocity, said Letlape.He said Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi did not seem to have much support for the NHI and members of Parliament and judges also had an attitude of don t touch my medical aid .However, he said, it was possible to provide universal health care, which was not a new concept, as the country had previously had one of the best health-care systems in the world under apartheid. South African whites had health for all. By 1967 they had a system that could give somebody a heart transplant for no payment. At the point of service, there were no deductibles, the doctor was on a salary and everyone could access healthcare. But when the Medical Schemes Act was created 50 years ago, the exodus of medical professionals from the public to the private sector began, Letlape said.He said there were between 3000 and 4000 medical professionals working for medical schemes who could be redistributed into the health system if schemes were abolished.Dr Mfowethu Zungu, deputy director general for macro policy, planning and NHI at the KZN Health Department, said only 48% of expenditure on health was spent in the public sector, which serviced 87% of the population, while the balance was spent in the private sector which serviced medical aid members, who comprised about 13% of the population.