Police are investigating whether a police uniform stolen from an officer s house in Khayelitsha may have been used in committing crimes. The police s Stabilisation Unit arrested four people after they recovered several items, including SAPS uniforms, a laptop, watches and an Xbox video-game console. Further investigations led to the recovery of a 7.65mm pistol (serial number removed), a magazine, seven rounds of ammunition, two pairs of handcuffs, and an electricity and airtime dispenser. A 36-year-old woman and a 44-year-old man were arrested in Harare, Khayelitsha, on Monday. Police were following up on information about a housebreaking that had occurred at a residence of an SAPS member attached to the SAPS Stabilisation Unit. Police spokesperson FC van Wyk said the burglary happened last week, and several valuables belonging to the officer were taken. He said the uniforms of his brother, also a police officer, who lived with him, were also stolen. Four of the six suspects were arrested last week by the unit of the officer who had his valuables stolen. Van Wyk said the same unit arrested the two suspects on Monday. They appeared in the Khayelitsha Magistrate s Court yesterday on charges of possession of stolen property and a prohibited firearm. Asked whether police suspected the uniforms may have been used in committing crimes, Van Wyk said: All is under investigation. Harare Community Policing Forum's Ronnie Busakwe has commended the police for the arrests and urged residents to work hand in hand with the SAPS. We are pleased that the police have made progress in this matter. &quot;Those items could have been used to do wrong things. The firearm did not have a serial number, and that is dangerous, said Busakwe. In a separate incident, police had a narrow escape when they came under attack from a suspect who opened fire at them while they searched a house in Galway Court, Hanover Park. Police had increased visibility in the area following the murder a 40-year-old man in Howick Court, Hanover Park, on Monday. Van Wyk said shots were fired at police officers by a man who had jumped off a white LDV, which then drove off. Nobody was injured during the incident. The suspect fled on foot for several blocks while firing at police.&quot;The police members apprehended the 26-year-old suspect at a house in Lansur Road, Hanover Park, into which he ran in an attempt to hide.&quot;Members confiscated a 9mm Vector pistol, a magazine and live ammunition. The serial number was filed off, said Van Wyk