INDEPENDENT councillor Velile Waxa has rejected claims that his coalition with the DA-led Knysna Municipality collapsed because of political differences, saying their marriage ended after he disagreed with the deputy mayor on appointments for senior posts. Last week Knysna mayor Eleanore Bouw-Spies announced the end of their coalition because Waxa s political outlook was not in line with the policies and values of the DA. She said the DA had decided that the coalition with Waxa no longer served the good of Greater Knysna. Waxa told the Cape Times yesterday that he had started having problems with deputy mayor Peter Myers over who should be appointed to the Knysna Planning Tribunal. Waxa claims the members of the tribunal were not representative of the demographics and said there was a conflict of interest as one of the candidates had ties with Myers. The problem is that the deputy mayor has certain agendas. I disagreed with them on the appointment of these members because none of them were Xhosa-speaking and we had had information that one of the people was his friend, but they continued appointing him. He said he had also questioned the appointment of the white directors in the municipality and that did not sit well with Myers. They didn t want these matters to be taken to the council. I do not have a problem with the DA, but it s certain individuals within the party. &quot;I have not received a letter from the DA confirming that our coalition has ended, it is only the municipality that issued a statement. Bouw-Spies said African Christian Democratic Party (ACDP) PR councillor Shakespeare Arends had joined the DA in a coalition agreement with immediate effect. As Councillor Arends was born and raised in Knysna, he understands Greater Knysna communities completely and has always put their needs first. &quot;He is a man of integrity and compassion, attributes that will serve the people of Greater Knysna well. Arends will replace Waxa on the mayoral committee as portfolio chair: Planning &amp; Integrated Human Settlements. He said: I have practised as a pastor in Knysna for the past 35 years and this has offered me valuable insight into the needs of our people. &nbsp;