Acrimony continues to brew in Greyton following violent clashes between shack dwellers who are mostly seasonal farmworkers and the beneficiaries of a land claim in the area.Conflict arose between the two groups after shack dwellers attempted to build a shack on land (part of Farm 39) they said that a land restitution claim beneficiaries committee member, George Juries, had provided for them in Bereaville.Genadendal resident Ruth Scheeper said blame must be placed squarely on Juries following the violence. There have never been any problems between the communities. It started when we decided to take our land and build our shacks, as this is as much our land and the committee tried to stop us. She added that they merely pointed out the unfairness considering that shack dwellers in nearby Bereaville had been living and constructing shacks for more than 10 years with no control.Displaced shack dwellers Simlindile Makaya and his cousin Nthembeka Makaya were both injured during the clashes. They and many others are currently being housed in the Moravian Hall in Greyton. We were told by Juries we could build the shack there on Saturday, then on Sunday he came with the police and others to stop us. They spoke Afrikaans and they started name-calling and carrying the furniture out of the shack, without permission, said Makaya.This resulted in a heated exchange with stones thrown by the Bereaville residents who beat them, injuring his arm and breaking his cousin s leg, Makaya said.He added that they had been warned that more violence would follow if they tried to re-enter the area, even to collect their possessions. Many of the displacees whereabouts were unknown.Farm 39 has Bereaville, Voorstekraal, Bosmanskloof and Genadendal claimants. They have been battling for more than 20 years to secure the land.Bereaville resident George August said they refused to allow the shack dwellers to return, as they were taking a stand against the illegal occupation of their land. At first we allowed the migrant workers to come in and build their shacks as we thought we had no choice and they slowly grew in number. They had always remained on the border of the nearby farm, but this structure was to be built on another piece of land, which is part of the Farm 39 restitution process, said August.They could not stand by and allow the migrant workers to take the land illegally while their own children were not allowed to do so, he said.Bereaville residents burnt tyres and blocked access to the area and said they were resolved that the shack dwellers would not be allowed to return.Juries responded to claims that he incited the violence and said he was accompanying the sheriff of the court throughout the Farm 39 sections. We were serving the court order, be it to a beneficiary or a shack dweller invading land, to desist while the process of restitution is in progress. I m well aware of these claims against me and other stories doing the rounds, and I will answer anyone, as I know the truth and hold firm in my conviction, said Juries.He said he had instructed the provincial officials from the Department of Rural Development and Land Reform to address the communities on the issue of Farm 39.Theewaterskloof mayor Christelle Vosloo said they had also submitted a formal request to the department and regional officials to assist with the ongoing issue. The municipality is firstly concerned with the safety and well-being of all the communities involved, and we have met the many role-players to discuss the current situation.&quot; They and the officials from the Department of Rural Development and Land Reform were to meet with each of the affected groups yesterday, to work towards a suitable resolution, said Vosloo.She said no guarantees had been made with regard to the land or housing. [email&#160;protected]