South Africa is set to experience severe storms and heavy rains starting from Thursday until Sunday, the SA Weather Service said in a warning it issued in anticipation of the arrival of the tropical cyclone named Dineo . The tropical cyclone is expected to hit the coast of Mozambique (Gaza and Inhambane provinces) today, 15 February, 2017, accompanied by high seas, strong winds, storms and heavy rain, said the SA Weather Service in a statement issued by the Government Communications (GCIS) on behalf of the Department of Co-operative Governance (CoGTA). The tropical storms will lead to flooding that might cut off many communities, displace others, lead to loss of life, destruction of infrastructure and property. CoGTA said Dineo will reach South Africa on Thursday and most likely affect Limpopo, Mpumalanga and the extreme northern parts of KwaZulu-Natal.Dineo, which will be accompanied by winds of up to 150km/h and heavy rains of up to 200mm, will continue inland on Friday. South Africa will not be immune or spared from the wrath of this cyclone. This will mostly affect Kruger National Park, Enhlanzeni, Vhembe, Mopani and Waterberg district municipalities, said CoGTA. It is important to note that the amount of rain and the speed of wind expected will have a disastrous impact on communities and areas in which the cyclone will pass through. Even though Limpopo province will be the worst affected, the impact of the storms and heavy rains might also be experienced in other provinces and areas as the rivers flowing from affected areas might lead to flooding somewhere else. Owing to the information on the envisaged arrival of tropical cyclone dineo in South Africa, government across the three spheres is working on contingency plans to ensure a coherent, integrated and coordinated response. This multi-sectoral plan will assist where need arises to ensure safety of communities and to minimise the impact. CoGTA said even though plans were in place to mitigate the impact of the disastrous conditions caused by the cyclone, the government is appealing to all communities in the affected areas to take extra care.Preferably communities should try at all cost to stay home during this period to avoid injuries as it is envisaged that there will be debris flying around and due to heavy rains and storms, visibility will also be poor. It is expected that this storms might negatively affect normal life as power and water supply might be interrupted, roads flooded and bridges washed away. We urge communities to recognise the danger that this cyclone brings and urge them to take necessary precautions. Updated information can be found at www.weathersa.co.za and the www.cogta.gov.za African News Agency