The Gauteng Health head, Tiego Selebano, was yesterday served with a precautionary suspension letter while his director for mental health, Makgabo Manamela, has been asked to explain why she should not suffer the same fate. Selebano will face a disciplinary hearing in 10 days while Manamela has 48 hours to give reasons why she should not be suspended, according to provincial government spokesperson Thabo Masebe. He said Premier David Makhura had swiftly appointed Selebano s replacement, Dr Ernest Kenoshi, the Steve Biko Academic Hospital chief executive.The move comes in the wake of the release of health ombud Professor Malegapuru Makgoba s report into the deaths of 94 Life Esidimeni patients. In his report, among other things, Makgoba recommended that the two face disciplinary hearings for the conduct and/or incompetence. The investigation found that the two be reported to their respective professional bodies for appropriate remedial action with regard professional and ethical conduct .Makgoba investigated the circumstances surrounding the deaths of the mentally patients housed at NGOs across the province.The people died in 27 NGOs they had been placed in last year after being moved from Life Esidimeni hospitals. The Star has it on good authority that officials from Premier David Makhura s office had to drive to Manamela s home in Brackendowns to serve her with the letter of intention to suspend. This was after attempts to serve the notice at the department s head office failed when officials were allegedly told she had called in sick. This week, the Gauteng provincial government and the Health Department announced they were starting to implement Makgoba s recommendations. The government established a team comprising senior officials; specialists in the area of mental health: doctors, psychiatrists, psychologists, nurses, occupational therapists; civil society organisations, family representatives; to respond to Makgoba s recommendations. The team is co-chaired by the Gauteng government director-general, Phindile Baleni and her national health counterpart Precious Matsoso.Masebe added that 22 NGOs had been visited yesterday. This process will be concluded by Friday (tomorrow). The team is also working towards identifying institutions that are well-equipped to care for the mental health patients in compliance with the Mental Health Care Act (2002), he concluded.