The father of the late Tshidi Buthelezi on Monday told the South Gauteng High Court former crime intelligence boss Richard Mdluli was his son-in-law because he had paid lobola of about R6 000.Johnson Buthelezi made the revelation in the matter of Mdluli and his co-accused, Mthembeni Mthunzi. The pair are accused of the 1999 kidnapping of taxi driver Oupa Ramogibe, who had become romantically involved Tshidi Buthelezi. Ramogibe was later found dead after the alleged kidnapping.Buthelezi told the court on Monday he recognised Mdluli as his son-in-law because he had paid lobola and had two children with his daughter one was stillborn. I don t remember the exact amount Mdluli paid because I was experiencing marital problems, but it was probably somewhere around R6 000, recalled Buthelezi.Ike Motloung, for Mdluli, asked Buthelezi if he knew Ramogibe and if he was aware that the taxi driver was involved with his daughter. Buthelezi denied ever meeting Ramogibe and also refuted claims the taxi driver had married his daughter.Motloung asked Buthelezi if he recalled ever going to Ramogibe s place together with Mdluli and Lerato Sebalo. Ramogibe fathered a child with Sebalo. No, that never happened. I never went to that place, replied Buthelezi.The 74-year-old told the court he was approached by the Hawks after Mdluli s arrest and they came to him to his house three times asking him the same questions. When they came the third time, they said they will fetch me on Tuesday and take me to Pretoria to do a lie detector test because (they said) I m not telling the truth about Mdluli. Buthelezi told the court the police were trying to force him to admit that he knew Ramogibe.Prosecutor Zaais Van Zyl asked Buthelezi if he was happy with Mdluli s relationship with his daughter. I was happy with their relationship, he replied.Van Zyl disputed Buthelezi s claims because around 1986 Buthelezi complained to a station commander that Mdluli was involved with his daughter Tshidi. I think each and every parent would be concerned about the person who is involved with their child, said Buthelezi, adding that he eventually accepted Mdluli after his daughter fell pregnant. He subsequently met Mdluli s family.Van Zyl asked Buthelezi if he ever visited Ramogibe s family. Up until then, Buthelezi had employed the services of an interpreter, with whom he spoke in isiZulu. It s a big no, Buthelezi said emphatically in English. Sir, how can you be so sure with your answers when you just have told the court that you don t remember some of the things that happened back then, asked Van Zyl.Buthelezi vehemently denied visiting Ramogibe s family.The State alleges that Mdluli and his accomplice kidnapped Ramogibe soon after he allegedly married Tshidi and moved in with her at a new place.At the time, Mdluli was the station commander at the Vosloorus Police Station in Boksburg, east of Johannesburg. He was accused of sabotaging the investigation into Ramogibe s murder. Tshidi also died in 2003 after an illness.However, in November 2012, an inquest into the killing of Ramogibe cleared Mdluli of any involvement in the murder.The charges were withdrawn, but were later reinstated. The trial continues. African News Agency