Replying to the debate on his State of the Nation address yesterday, President Jacob Zuma sent messages of condolences to the families of the more than 100 psychiatric patients of Life Esidimeni in Gauteng, who died after they were moved to NGOs and unlicensed facilities.Zuma cautioned his opponents against using the tragedy to score political points. This matter is deeply painful for the country and it should not be used for political gains. The government will continue to support the families and it will ensure that the recommendations of the health ombudsperson are implemented. Zuma s comments were made just less than two hours after DA leader Mmusi Maimane announced that he had written to Zuma requesting he establish a judicial commission of inquiry to rigorously investigate what transpired. The terms of reference of the commission ought to be wide, so as to include an investigation into the treatment of mental health patients across the country, Maimane said.On Wednesday, Health Ombud Malegapuru Makgoba briefed Parliament s portfolio committee on health about the deaths.This was after Makgoba released his report announcing that 94 psychiatric patients died after being transferred from Life Esidimeni to 27 non-governmental organisations that were mostly unlicensed.Maimane said despite Makgoba s investigation and report released last week, further investigation was required. The health ombudsman s report did not go far and deep enough. &quot;In fact, since the health ombudsman s report was released, many developments have come to light which require a commission with a wide scope in order to cover every conceivable aspect in relation to the deaths that occurred. The lives of those who died at the hands of government in this tragedy are of no less value than the victims of the Marikana Massacre. If Marikana warranted a judicial commission of inquiry, which it rightly did, then Esidimeni does too. The failure by Zuma not to heed Maimane s call on the commission of inquiry was unsurprising considering that his office has been consistent in stating how distressed it was by the death of the psychiatric patients.When he delivered his address last Thursday, Zuma said he had instructed Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi to ensure that Makgoba s recommendations were wholly and speedily implemented without any reservations.