President Jacob Zuma came under fire in Parliament once again yesterday, with ministers in his economic cluster backing his growth plans, saying the economy will pick up this year.Opposition parties said the government was not growing the economy, corruption was rampant in the state and its land reform programme was stalling.The DA, IFP and ACDP said Zuma s government would not turn the corner and people continued to fill the ranks of the unemployed.They said ANC corruption was endemic in the state.But ANC ministers called for radical economic transformation and the inclusion of more black people in the mainstream economy.The debate on the State of the Nation address was mired by insults and jeers from the benches across the chamber.Small Business Development Minister Lindiwe Zulu said they would not allow the opposition to push the ANC so far in the chamber with insults. She noted that democracy allowed the DA to come to Parliament despite the history of the country. She said they would not allow the DA to push the ANC further than it already had.DA MP Natasha Mazzone said Zulu was threatening opposition MPs and that this was unacceptable.Zulu said the government had scrapped the willing-buyer, willing-seller principle because farmers inflated prices for their land.Posts and Telecommunications Minister Siyabonga Cwele said they would not allow the economy to be in the hands of the few.The government wanted inclusive growth, which included black people. The South African economy cannot grow while 50% of our people are excluded or marginalised in the periphery of the mainstream economy. He said the majority of the people agreed with Zuma that the structure of the economy was skewed and needed to change. Trade and Industry Minister Rob Davies said the structure of the economy must be changed. The country could not afford to have a winner-takes-all system in the economy.However, Davies cautioned against South Africa becoming overly protectionist in regard to global trade. He said this could close down the country's access to markets. He noted that South Africa accounted for only 0.5% of world trade.He also warned against the crisis in the poultry industry. A task team had been set up to look into this. But we must also recognise that if we don t act against the surge of imports, we might not have an industry to raise the competitiveness of. 