Former SABC board chairperson Ben Ngubane has come out guns blazing against those who fingered him in wrongdoing at the corporation, saying they were smearing his name.He said yesterday that the people who implicated him in their submissions to the ad hoc committee were not telling the truth. He completely rejected the allegations made against him by some of the witnesses.Ngubane said he had given the committee verifiable information against the allegations made by some of the people who appeared before it.Some of the witnesses accused Ngubane of breaches in the SABC. He said he had played an important role at the SABC during his tenure, and this was despite the challenges faced by the public broadcaster at the time. This evidence should assist the ad hoc committee to realise that not much reliance can be placed on oral evidence, even if it is presented by way of affidavits, said Ngubane. If such affidavits are not supported by objectively verifiable evidence, in the form of documentation, they are only as good as hearsay evidence.&quot;The ad hoc committee is deliberating on the final report on the SABC. It has to be submitted to Parliament on Tuesday for approval. The committee began the investigation into the SABC late last year. In the past decade, the SABC has not had a board that has completed its five-year term. Several boards were dissolved because of infighting. The ad hoc committee is expected to table its report with recommendations against the people who are implicated. In the interim report, MPs decided not to include recommendations because they believed this would be prejudicial to the implicated parties.Ngubane said he believed the committee would vindicate him when it presented its final report as he had maintained the allegations against him were false.Once the National Assembly has approved the report, the spotlight will shift to the portfolio committee on communications to appoint an interim board.The committee said earlier that it would begin the process of choosing members of the interim board as soon as the ad hoc committee had concluded its investigation and tabled the report in Parliament.Parties have been asked to present the names of candidates to serve in the five-member interim board when the portfolio committee meets next month.