You can t deny the fact that the drought in South Africa is a big problem and affects people in different ways. Some are frustrated that they can t water their lawns, while others are barely able to wash themselves.In our home suburb of Manenberg we have been feeling the heavy impact of the drought, along with many other places around South Africa. What has been particularly difficult is the use of the blue water meters that allow households to use only 300 litres a day. To put this into perspective, a full bath is equal to 226 litres. This is a very small amount especially when you consider households can go up to 16 people including back-yarders . Many households in Manenberg have elderly people that need regular access to water to take their medicine and to keep hydrated. The water meters are also unstable, they are poor quality and often burst, leading to more wastage of precious water. This is also a problem because it takes a long time for the maintenance crew to come and fix the meter. In some cases, it can take weeks. It is no wonder that people think that Manenberg is wasting valuable water. However, this is showing the people in a bad and misleading light. Clearly there are other problems that need to be fixed. The situation in South Africa is troublesome as it is, and it is frightening to know that it might get worse. We need to save water in order to avoid the negative consequences that we have started to see owing to a lack of water. Here are some small but important Rock Girl tips on saving water in your day-to-day lives:* Shower once a day and don t overdo it. * Be aware of using taps. Close them properly and don't run water unnecessarily. * Brush your teeth using a jug of water instead of using a tap.* When washing dishes, try not to wash individual plates under the tap. Rather save up for a big wash and fill the sink with water. * If it's yellow, let it mellow you can save a lot of water by only flushing your toilet when necessary.We need to look at the bigger picture, and if everyone saves a little bit it can make a difference.