Some Maitland and Kensington residents have come out strongly against the proposed plan for a permanent indoor rubble crashing site in Maitland, saying the facility would cause further traffic congestion on the busy Voortrekker Road, and noise pollution. The residents started a petition calling for the proposal to not be approved. They charged that the applicant, Ross Excavations (Pty) Ltd had previously operated an unlawful crusher and had failed to comply with several regulations and was stopped in 2013. In the petition, Kensington resident Lorenzo Sada said: Being a hydraulics technician, I am always on sites such as mines, crushers and quarries. My company gets call-outs to at least four different stone or rubble crushing companies per week. The possibilities of dust and even migrating sand is an inevitable and unavoidable result of any rubble-crushing project, internal or external and irrespective of the size, or precautionary measures applied. As a ratepayer and resident, I will vehemently oppose Ross Demolition s proposal and encourage the departments of environmental affairs and health and safety, to seriously reconsider the impact such a transgression will have on its community. Residents were still living with the consequence of the company s illegal activities, as rubble on the property was blowing all over, according to resident Zea Aimes.In its notice, environmental assessment practitioner Sillito Environmental Consulting (SEC) said the application by Ross Excavations for the authorisation of a plant included application for rectification of the prior, unlawful operation of a single, outdoor rubble crusher from December 2012 to June 2013.SEC said the crushing plant, as well as the prior unlawfully operated crusher, triggered the need for a Waste Licence in terms of the National Environment Management Waste Act. The application will be considered by the Western Cape Department of Environmental Affairs and Development Planning. SEC was appointed by Ross Excavations to facilitate the waste licence. Owing to the fact that a crusher was operated unlawfully on the site for a time by the applicant, the application for a waste licence will need to be made in terms of section 24G of the National Environmental Management Act. &quot;Act 107 of the 1998, as amended, Section 24G is aimed at rectifying unlawful activities, said SEC. In the report, SEC said several measures were incorporated in the design that would mitigate the generation of dust and noise while ensuring the control of air quality inside the enclosed building. [email&#160;protected]