Junaid Arendse, who touched hearts throughout the country in his brave battle against cancer, has been given 2-3 weeks to live, with his family saying his cancer has returned in a full-blown state. In June 2015, doctors gave Junaid, 7, just three months to live after he was diagnosed with stage four neuroblastoma - a solid cancerous tumour that begins in the nerve cells of infants and young children. His only hope was topotecan, an expensive treatment not available in state hospitals.The Mitchells Plain boy had previously undergone numerous sessions of chemotherapy at the Red Cross War Memorial Children s Hospital since the cancer was diagnosed in May 2014. This treatment, however, was no longer sufficient and the family raised funds for topotecan. Thanks to donations from generous Cape Times readers, friends, supporters and his school, Hazeldene Primary, more than R150000 was raised for his treatment. Large amounts were donated by high-profile locals including mayor Patricia de Lille, who donated R25000 to the family, and comedians Kurt Schoonraad, Marc Lottering, Stuart Taylor and Nik Rabinowitz, who put on a show in aid of Junaid at the Cape Town Comedy Club. They raised R60000. In September 2015, test results showed that the cancer had been eradicated from his upper body. Two months later, doctors gave the go-ahead to remove the tumour. Junaid s grandfather, Leonard Arendse, yesterday said that after the boy complained of a pain in his leg about three weeks ago, he was taken to Red Cross hospital for a check-up, and the cancer was found to have returned. They (the doctors) said there is nothing they can do, they can only give him medication for the pain. They have already done all the chemo and used the expensive medication, they can t give him anything now. He is doing fine at the moment, he is in less pain now because he is on painkillers. They said we need to make sure we make him comfortable, Arendse said. Junaid was aware that he was very sick, but still went to school and was an active boy when the pain subsided, Arendse said. If you see him, you wouldn t think there is anything wrong, you only know when he says he is in pain. It came as a shock for all of us, he is a vibrant kid, full of joy. He is still active, even though he is resting more. When he is at home he watches his favourite cartoons and colours in (his colouring books). We need to come to terms with it, but we are still hoping for the best, he said. Junaid s grandmother Margaret Arendse said the news of the cancer s return had devastated the family, as the energetic boy behaved like a normal seven-year-old, even lending her a hand in preparing lunches by peeling potatoes. (The news) was heartbreaking to me. When I look at him I must be strong for him and not cry in front of him. (When I do cry) he will ask me Ma, why are you crying? and I tell him I don t feel well and that it s okay to cry a little. But he knows something is going on, she said. It is only now and then that he complains of pain, and then I will sit with him. People say they can t believe their eyes when they see him. He doesn t seem sick, Margaret Arendse said. I took him to church last Thursday in Blue Downs and the pastor prayed for him. I have put my trust in the Lord now, she said. [email&#160;protected]