Residents of Shukushukuma informal settlement in Site C, Khayelitsha, are at loggerheads with their ward councillor, Mlulami Mabhuti Velem, after he announced the return of Somali shopkeepers who had been chased out.The Somalis were ordered to leave the informal settlement after the killing of seven-year-old Alizwa Makhanda, allegedly by a business owner, during a suspected robbery. The stand-off between the area s street committees and the ward councillor was sparked by Velem s move to approach the local taxi association for the protection of the shopkeepers when they return tomorrow. Alizwa was shot dead and two others were injured when a business owner allegedly opened fire on a suspected robber on January 8. The area was on a knife-edge after three Somali shopkeepers, Mahad Salaad Ahmed, 22, Muhuyadin Geedi Ali, 27, and Abdul Sallim, 28, were shot dead on February 2. They were killed within minutes of each other in the area. Residents said yesterday that a decision was made that the Somalis would not return to the section after the girl s death. Committee members Nonceba Mfuleni and Fundiwa Dika said Velem called a meeting yesterday to tell them he had asked the business owners to return to the community. It was just an order he gave during that meeting. We were unable to relate that information to the community because we know where they stand on this matter. The most worrying thing about this is that the councillor did not see fit to approach the police for the protection of the Somalis, but instead asked the taxi bosses, said Dika. The child s family said they felt betrayed by the councillor s action. When he told the street committees about this, he said he did not have to please anyone about his decision because the people who killed my daughter had made a contribution towards the funeral arrangements. &quot;What we are saying is that if that is the case, we will give them back their money and they must bring back my child. They volunteered to pay, we did not ask them, and it was never an agreement that if they pay, they would return, said Alizwa's aunt Sisanda Raza. Velem said the residents' refusal to allow the business owners back did not resolve the matter but made itworse. The owner of the shop said they did all that they were supposed to do. It was not him who did this, it was his colleague, so he feels it s unfair for him to be denied to come back. &quot;The residents are standing firm and do not want to listen. We have approached taxi bosses for their intervention, but the most painful thing is that this shopkeeper paid money to show that he regretted what had happened. &quot;The amount paid to the family won t bring back the child, but peace and forgiveness must exist so that this won t look like people are doing this because this person is not from the country, he said.Velem said taxi bosses were approached because the police were acting slowly. Police spokesperson FC van Wyk said no arrest had been made in the shooting of the child, and the investigation continued. [email&#160;protected]