Britain s youngest Euromillions winner has revealed she is planning to take legal action against lottery bosses for negligence.Jane Park, who won &pound;1 million (R16.2m) at the age of 17, said the windfall had ruined her life and she often thought things would have been better if she hadn't won.Now 21, Park argued that someone of her age shouldn't have been allowed to win such a substantial sum of money. She said 18 should be the minimum age for winning the lottery, and suggested the current limit of 16 was too young.She said she had become bored of relentless consumption and felt like it failed to offered long-term genuine happiness. Before winning the lottery, Park, who now owns two properties, worked as an administrative temp for &pound;8 an hour and lived in a small flat with her mum in Edinburgh. I thought it would make it 10 times better but it s made it 10 times worse, she told the Sunday People. People look at me and think, I wish I had her lifestyle, I wish I had her money. But they don t realise the extent of my stress. I have material things but apart from that my life is empty. What is my purpose in life? I ve read about other lottery winners who ve just blown it all and I can totally see how it can be done, she added. I was stuck in front of a financial adviser who was using words like investment bonds. I had no clue what they meant. It s scary how different my life is from my friends . When they say they re stressed about the money they mean their wages are s***, Park continued. There s no one in the same boat as me, no one who really understands. I feel like I m a 40-year-old. A spokesperson for Camelot said: Camelot takes its duty of care to winners very seriously and all major winners are offered support and advice for as long as they wish. Following her win, Jane received extensive support from Camelot. A dedicated winners adviser visited Jane at home to pay out her prize, arrange private banking and support her through the publicity when she chose to share news of her win.&quot;An independent financial and legal panel was set up shortly after her win and we put Jane in touch with another winner who won at the same age, to share their experience and help Jane adjust to the win. Camelot said the minimum age limit to play the lottery was an issue for Parliament to deal with.Callie Rogers, who was 16 and earning &pound;3.60 an hour when she won a National Lottery jackpot worth &pound;1 875 000 in 2003, struggled to adjust to her newfound wealth. She went on a spending spree and is reported to have tried to kill herself. Ironically, Rogers has said she is much happier now she has spent her fortune.