One in four teens has experienced sadness and feelings of hopelessness.About 31% of teen suicide attempts required medical treatment and 17% of teenagers have attempted suicide, with 15.6% having made a plan to do it. In addition, 9% of all unnatural youth deaths are caused by suicide.These figures have driven the South African Depression and Anxiety Group (Sadag) on a campaign to prevent teenagers becoming part of the statistics as the world concentrates on Teen Suicide Prevention Week, which ends on Saturday.This year the group has targeted parents and teachers and has been educating them on how to spot teenagers who may be suicidal.Their campaign took them to various schools where they engaged with teachers and parents on what looks to be a growing phenomenon.They have been equipping them with the necessary resources to handle potentially depressed or suicidal teenagers.One school was Seshegong Secondary in Olievenhoutbosch.The school s deputy principal, Deborah Seshweni, said she was overjoyed that Sadag had come to educate them about depression and suicide. We would like for our pupils to also know how to take care of their mental health. Teachers and parents were told that among things associated with teen suicide were previous attempts to kill themselves, a history of depression or suicide in the family, having been previously sexually or physically assaulted or a learning or physical disability.Some of the verbal signs displayed by teenagers included: You d be better off without me or You won t have to deal with me much longer. Sadag said there were multiple reasons why teenagers would want to take their own lives. Depression was the leading cause. Many teens who are suicidal feel out of control and they see suicide as a way to get back a sense of control in their lives.&quot;&quot;Sadly, many teens feel they are a burden on their family and suicide is seen as a way to relieve that burden or punish themselves for something they think they have done wrong, Sadag s operations director Cassey Chambers said.They warned of certain behavioural changes that could mean a teenager was suicidal such as their saying goodbye or giving away favourite items. Someone who is usually sociable not wanting to go out, becoming negative, aggressive or irritable these are warning signs, or even a drop in hygiene or not caring about physical appearance. Cyber-bullying a growing concern was thought a cause of teenage suicide, but Chambers said it was not the only reason.Suicide usually resulted from a combination of factors. Though cyber-bullying may be a contributing factor, it isn t the main reason. What parents need to do to protect their children from social media or cyber-bullying is to be very involved with what their children have access to. So if they do have a phone or if they re on the internet, get involved with who they re messaging, what they are messaging, what pages they re visiting and have that open discussion with the children. Chambers said it was important that the minute an incident of cyber-bullying was identified it ought to be reported and dealt with immediately.What parents should not do was ignore the problem. They should act as soon as possible and avoid the would ve, could ve, should ve' situation. Rather act and get them help. The most important thing they can do is act before it s too late.&quot;