Online advertising giant Gumtree has announced a ban on adverts for live donkeys and donkey hides following investigation and a television feature exposing the poor transport and cruel slaughtering conditions of donkeys. The animals have been reportedly targeted for their hides which are being used to produce Chinese ejiao (believed to have medicinal value). In January, animal rights groups announced that 230 donkeys and 25 horses were rescued from an auction which would have sold them to buyers for slaughter, with the intention to harvest their skins for export to Asia. After the shocking coverage on Carte Blanche, I am sure many will want to support this campaign for donkeys: https://t.co/sbZk7ztv6RAfter the shocking coverage on Carte Blanche, I am sure many will want to support this campaign for donkeys: https://t.co/sbZk7ztv6R Ingrid van den Berg (@PossumCT) February 3, 2017</blockquote> The Animal Rescue Organisation, along with the Karoo Donkey Sanctuary in Prince Albert, became aware of a nightmare situation brewing at sale yards in the Northern Cape after reports of illegal donkey slaughter for the traditional medicine trade. Gumtree says it has significantly restricted the sale of animals on their platform over the last 12 months, including banning the sale of primates, sugar gliders, African Greys, teacup piglets, hedgehogs and dogs deemed vulnerable for use in dog fighting ( power breeds ). Gumtree spokesperson Claire Cobbledick said the company was made aware of the issue by both the National Council of the Society of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (NSPCA) and Ban Animal Trading. While there are many reputable farmers who trade in donkey hides and live animals, we decided that extreme measures would be necessary to prevent further unsavoury practices. Gumtree immediately banned the sale of donkey hides after the expose aired on the 29th of January, and then extended the ban further, she said. In one confirmed instance, 42 donkeys were stolen in the North West province village of Mmaku last year. According to the NSPCA, the Asian owner of the property where the bodies of the donkeys were found admitted to stealing the donkeys, slaughtering and skinning them and claiming that they make good medicine .