The principal of Orleansvale Primary School says he accepts responsibility for the stampede after a school concert in which 29 pupils were slightly injured.After their school s Valentine s concert last Friday, more than 900 pupils were told to return to their classes, using one entrance to control the traffic.What followed as chaos as older pupils rushed through an entrance into the school courtyard, trampling some of the first graders and adults in the process.Principal Hilgard Cairncross said the event formed part of the school's fundraising initiatives and a precursor to the main event, which would have occurred in the evening. I was not here as I quickly attended the unveiling of a mobile library at another school, where Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga was in attendance. On my return I was informed about what (had) occurred and our front office looked like an emergency room, said Cairncross.He said he contacted his regional superior, the Safe Schools representative in the region, and began ensuring emergency services and the hospital attended to the injured. We want to take the lessons from this experience but not hide away from the responsibility from our side. In future, perhaps separating the events for the different grades would be considered, said Cairncross.Neighbourhood Watch member Meloney Singh was injured while trying to protect two of the smaller children. They swarmed through the entrance and I could not do anything because of the sheer number of pupils. I covered two of the smaller kids and was trampled on... my ankle's bruised and swollen, said Singh.She said the Grade 6s and Grade 7s were unruly throughout the day, and there was nothing any of the adults could do once the rush began.School governing committee chairperson Charles Jampies said the parents had accepted the explanation provided by the principal. What we learnt is that we have to seriously look at the procedures regarding evacuations and movements in times of emergencies. The school also confirmed counselling would be provided, said Jampies.No serious injuries beyond the scrapes and bruises were reported. [email&#160;protected]