PRESIDENT Jacob Zuma has laughed off suggestions of a looming cabinet reshuffle after his State of the Nation address tomorrow.Addressing the media yesterday after the pre-Sona business investor luncheon with the captains of industry in Cape Town ahead of the address, Zuma jokingly told the media to forget about the cabinet reshuffle. What I will tell you is I don t know. Since last year this speculation has been there but it has never happened, he said. Forget about it. I will tell you when I need to tell you. Pressed about how he would inform the journalists, Zuma said: If I have your number I will. He burst into laughter before adding: Or, I will put it on Twitter. &nbsp;Zuma initially refused to answer the question when asked about speculation on a cabinet reshuffle during an impromptu interview after meeting organised business and labour. We said (Trade and Industry Minister Rob) Davies will answer all the questions. Maybe, he knows about it. I don t know. I know nothing about it, he insisted.Two weeks ago there were reports that former Eskom chief executive Brian Molefe was heading for Parliament after the ANC in North West made a request to Luthuli House for his name to be included on the list of its MPs .It was also reported that a cabinet reshuffle was on the cards after Zuma delivered his address, with Molefe tipped to replace incumbent Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan.Former AU Commission chairperson Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma was apparently set to be accommodated in the new-look cabinet.The report came amid a push by some in the Zuma faction calling for Gordhan to be fired and Dlamini Zuma to be brought into the cabinet ahead of the party's elective conference in December.Zuma in December 2015 fired then finance minister Nhlanhla Nene and replaced him with the little-known backbencher Des van Rooyen. He was forced to reverse the appointment of Van Rooyen and appointed Gordhan instead.Representatives of organised business, who attended the luncheon, said the issue of a cabinet reshuffle was not discussed. It never emerged, it was not part of discussions, Black Business Council president Danisa Baloyi said.Business Unity South Africa president Jabu Mabuza said his organisation was in support of the constitution, which empowered Zuma to make a cabinet reshuffle. We are grateful and supportive of the team the president has given to work with us, he said. It is perfectly out of our place to choose ministers for the president, he said.Meanwhile, Parliament yesterday scrapped plans to restrict journalists when Zuma delivers his State of the Nation address.Senior officials from Parliament had sent out instructions that journalists should be corralled in a &quot;media square&quot;. If they wanted to move they would be escorted by security officials.But yesterday Deputy Speaker Lechesa Tsenoli denied this was an instruction that came from the Speaker's office. Those responsible would be told to drop the plan.No clampdown on journalists would be allowed, he said. I want to assure members that there will be no restriction on the media to do their work.&quot;I don t know where the idea of a media square comes from. 