THE act of violence allegedly carried out by Oriah Molapo was described as horrific, resulting in the 45-year-old being denied bail yesterday in the Lenasia Magistrate s Court. This was according to magistrate Maggie van der Merwe, who denied Molapo his freedom after being charged with allegedly stabbing Nothemba Lebepe, principal at Paul Mosaka Primary School in Pimville, Soweto.Molapo apparently was angry with the principal for the fact that he lost his job due to faking his qualifications. In a fit of rage, Molapo allegedly stabbed Lebepe 25 times, an attack she survived. Molapo was arrested in November. The facts of the charge are horrific. There are no other words to describe what happened, taking into account that the incident happened at 7.15am at a primary school in full view of children, Van der Merwe said. She said what was disturbing was that the accused left his house with the intention of attacking Lebepe. The accused left his house with the necessary weapons; a knife, a screwdriver and a hammer show that this act was premeditated and pre-planned, she said. While handing down judgment, Van der Merwe said stabbing another human being 25 times indicates a direct attempt to kill. The actions of the accused indicate excessive rage and resentment. The victim handed in a compliant in 2012, which indicated that the accused threatened her. It stated that the accused had said in his threats that one of us will leave this place dead . She said the statement illustrated that there was a history between the accused and the victim, and that a huge resentment was evident. She further said Molapo was involved in an incident in prison, in which he is alleged to have attempted to attack a prison guard. The accused is a violent man and cannot contain his rage, especially if resentment is at play, Van der Merwe said. The magistrate said the release of Molapo would cause massive public outcry, and that the evidence against him was overwhelming. I find that one ground has been proven that there s a strong likelihood that the accused will cause harm to the victim and commit a schedule one offence, she said. During court proceedings, Lebepe s husband Godfrey broke down in tears when Van der Merwe spoke of the incident, and had to be rushed out of court. The matter was postponed to March 13 for further investigation.