Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi has asked the SA Human Rights Commission to investigate if there were cases of psychiatric patients who had died in other provinces besides Gauteng.This followed the tragic loss of more than 100 psychiatric patients who had been transferred from Life Esidimeni centres to ill-equipped NGOs in Gauteng.Motsoaledi told The Star they wanted to get to the bottom of these cases across the country.The expansion of the investigation into other provinces is part of the recommendations of the health ombudsman, Professor Malegapuru Makgoba.Motsoaledi said they would leave no stone unturned, and wanted to ensure all the groundwork was covered.He said he had written to the SAHRC to begin with the investigation into other provinces.SAHRC spokesperson Gushwell Brooks said yesterday they had started with the probes. The commission have taken this up and they are looking forward to the investigation.&quot;He added this would be a nationwide investigation. We will do it systematically nationally. In the Eastern Cape, there was a concern because there was a planned movement of patients. Our office there is looking into that. Brooks said they were working on the ombudsman s report.Motsoaledi said they needed to ensure they fully implemented the recommendations of Makgoba. This would cover all the facilities in the country.The Department of Health did not want such a tragedy to be repeated.More than 10 senior officials in Gauteng are on suspension pending disciplinary action against them over the Esidimeni matter.Former Gauteng health MEC Qedani Mahlangu quit on the eve of the release of the report early this month. She has been criticised for not responding quickly when the deaths of patients came to her attention.Makgoba said that when Mahlangu told the provincial legislature last September that 36 patients had died, more than 77 patients had already passed away by then.Makgoba said that by November 29, after he had questioned Mahlangu again, she still stuck to the figure of 36 deaths. This was despite the increasing number of deaths.Makgoba said they had been discovering more bodies and the number was now well over 100. He said the figure could rise further. These were not new deaths, but people who had not been found when the report came out.Motsoaledi said they hoped the number would not be too high. They would ensure every patient was accounted for.