A local NGO has called on small-scale farmers and people from rural areas to join them in defending the land rights and livelihoods of the poor.This comes as a Caledon horse owner returns to court to fight the municipality for the return of his impounded horses.The Inyanda National Land Movement, with the Trust for Community Outreach, is supporting small-scale farmer Anthony Sampson, also known as Oom Pops.Sampson is back in the Caledon Magistrate s Court today in a bid to stop the Theewaterskloof Municipality from auctioning six of its horses it impounded last year.Inyanda regional co-ordinator Henry Michaels called Sampson s plight the struggle of the poor farmer. This case is bringing to the fore the real struggle black farmers face from municipalities, which are denying them their livelihood. This is similar to the 80-year-old Riviersonderend gogo, Nosinothi Ntsombo, whose goats were taken and sold because she couldn t pay the ridiculous release fee of more than R500 000. Ntsombo and Sampson are among a group of small-scale farmers in the Caledon-Greyton-Riviersonderend region who rely on municipal commonage grazing.The municipality introduced a new by-law, carrying high release penalties, which enforced the impounding of animals that wandered on to commonage or private property. The penalty was to cover the cost of caring for the animals, it said.Michaels said the right to land was at the centre of the struggle. How can poor farmers improve their lives when the land is still in the hands of rich commercial farmers? Municipalities hide behind mandates. When the land is under their administration, if they truly want to assist small-scale farmers, they must work with them to enable true transformation within the farming sector. Michaels, the NGOs and small-scale farmers from the region would picket the municipal offices today.Vukani Farmers Association chairperson Bonginkosi Bongela said their Riversonderend organisation would join the picket. We are supporting Oom Pops because his fight is our fight. We will hand over our memorandum to the mayor demanding the release of our animals and demanding land to which we have a right. [email&#160;protected]