IT S all systems go for President Jacob Zuma s State of the Nation address tonight.The theme for this year s address is: The Year of Oliver Reginald Tambo: Unity in Action Together Moving South Africa Forward . Tambo was a key architect of democratic South Africa.Zuma is expected to give an update on the implementation of the Programme of Action based on the National Development Plan (NDP); and the context of the current strides made by the government to respond to various challenges in South Africa.It will be followed by a debate in the National Assembly and the president s reply to the debate. Zuma s will deliver his address to the joint sitting of the two houses of Parliament. The opening of Parliament and the State of the Nation address is a very important event for our country as it reminds us of our history and the long journey that our country has taken to ensure a better life for all, Zuma said.The SANDF will have 441 members deployed during the opening of Parliament to support the police.In a statement, Parliament has dismissed reports that it will be under the command of the military. As part of planning for Sona, Parliament engages with the relevant departments in the executive at national, provincial and local levels. These departments include the SANDF, which has a ceremonial role to play. On request of the SAPS, the SANDF is sometimes deployed to support the police in exercising their safety and security function, such as the case in point, it said in a statement.The City has advised of road closures in and around the CBD, which will affect traffic flow from 6am until midnight. These include Wale, Queen Victoria, Adderley and Parliament streets.Permission has been granted to the ANC Dullah Omar Region for 10 000 people to gather on the Grand Parade between 5pm and 11pm.The SA Unintegrated Forces United Front is also expected to gather on the Grand Parade until 9pm.Zuma yesterday hosted a high tea with special guests, including the family of former ANC president Tambo, and Umkhonto we Sizwe veteran and stalwart General Ike Maphoto.People on the streets of Cape Town said they hoped Zuma would address matters relating to socio-economic issues as well. Shepard Nwami said: I hope he addresses the issues that people are going through, like unemployment, the price of things and housing. Xolani Mdishe said he expects Zuma to address the controversial State of Capture report. For me he has to address it because we do not know what is happening. Opponents of Zuma s leadership yesterday held their own State of the Nation, which was hosted at St George s Cathedral, organised by civil society lobby group Save SA.Founding member of the campaign Lawson Naidoo said: We need to hold the president accountable for making empty promises. Naidoo, however, was positive about the country s future, saying: Hearing today s youth, South Africa has a bright future, so it is time we nurtured our youth. National Council of Trade Unions (Nactu) president Joseph Maqhekeni said they were anxious to hear what Zuma would tell the nation about what his legacy would be, seeing that these are the last days of his administration .The ANC leader is expected to step down as president of the country in 2019. Our expectations as Nactu are that the state president will look at the economic transformation in the country, like what progress has been made and what are the barriers, and how he intends, with his government, to address those barriers, said Maqhekeni.He said they would continue working with the business sector and the government with regard to the ratings agencies. Believe me, if our sovereign credit rating is downgraded, that is going to affect the workers of this country. We also expect the president to tell the nation what he is going to do to address the high levels of unemployment and a lack of skills, he added.Cosatu expected Sona to set the tone for government's work this year, with the aim of addressing the serious challenges facing the country and also improving the lives of the struggling majority .Cosatu spokesperson Sizwe Pamla said this year s Sona came against the backdrop of subdued economic performance and the downward revision of the economic growth over the last couple of quarters. Follow the conversation on social media using the hashtag #SONA2017