DA leader Mmusi Maimane has called for Zimbabwe President Robert Mugabe, who turned 93 yesterday, to be removed from power in the same way The Gambia s dictator, Yahya Jammeh, was booted out last month.He also criticised the role played by the AU and the South African government in propping up Mugabe s regime. Mugabe is respected and loathed throughout the continent and the world for his efforts in that country s liberation struggle, and his controversial policies on land and the economy, respectively.Asked what his birthday message for Mugabe was, Maimane said: I wish that he would recognise that at his age he should not continue being the president of Zimbabwe. He has ruled for too long and must step aside. He was speaking on the sidelines of the DA s commemoration of the sinking of the SS Mendi steamship 100 years ago, which left more than 600 black South African soldiers dead.Maimane said the AU had not sought to acknowledge democratic processes. We must stand for democracy. The Zimbabweans won the elections, the opposition won the elections and we (South Africa) negotiated a government of national unity, undermining the will of the people, said Maimane.He said we must do to Zimbabwe what had happened in The Gambia, where Economic Community of West African States troops were deployed to force out Jammeh.Last month, EFF leader Julius Malema called on Mugabe to step down as he was no longer capable of discharging his responsibilities . His overstay is not doing justice to the African revolution project. We celebrate what he has done and we will continue his legacy, but grandpa, it s enough now. You must let go and allow other people to continue that legacy, Malema had said. Zimbabwe s ruling Zanu-PF, however, has already endorsed Mugabe as its candidate for the national general election next year. First lady Grace Mugabe reportedly said: If God decides to take him, then we would rather field him as a corpse (in the upcoming election). We will put his name on the ballot paper just to show that people love their president. @luyolomkentane