Retired Western Cape High Court Judge Essa Moosa used his legal practice as part of the battle against apartheid. He was an astute lawyer who committed his practice to advancing the interests of the poor and the Struggle for freedom in this country. This is how Moosa, who died yesterday after a long illness, was described by former colleagues during his funeral. Tributes and condolences have continued pouring in from around the country to the Moosa family. His death has been described as a great loss, not only to his family but to the entire country. President Jacob Zuma said Moosa will be remembered for his immense contribution in promoting and protecting human rights. We have learnt with sadness of the passing of one of the country s renowned human rights activists and former judge of the Supreme Court, Honourable Judge Moosa. His passing is an enormous loss to South Africa, as one of our seasoned human rights activists. We wish to extend our heartfelt condolences to the Moosa family and relatives; our prayers and thoughts are with them May his soul rest in peace, said Zuma. Hundreds of people, including former colleagues and politicians, packed the Taronga Road Mosque to pay their final respects. The 81-year-old was the founding and executive member of the National Association of Democratic Lawyers and chaired its Human Rights Committee. He was also a member of the constitutional committee of the ANC, which gave logistical support to the party s negotiation team for the establishment of a democratic South Africa. He practised as an attorney until December 1997 and in 1998 was appointed as a judge of the High Court before retiring on February 2011. Moosa s fellow judge and Struggle lawyer, Western Cape High Court Judge Siraj Desai said: On behalf of all the lawyers, the generations of lawyers who worked with him for over 40 years, we pay tribute to Judge Essa Moosa. To all of us he was a mentor, a friend, adviser and always a comrade. Judge Desai said he had worked with Moosa since the 1976 student uprising, and Judge Moosa flowered in providing young lawyers with leadership. Remember, in 1976 there were few black lawyers. Essa gave us leadership and also direction as to what the function of the lawyer was in an oppressive state. We pay tribute to him and what he did for us. This is a great loss, not simply for us as lawyers but to all South Africans because he committed himself to advancing the interests of this country, said Judge Desai. Former labour minister and national president of the SA Democratic Teachers Union, Membathisi Mdladlana, who attended the funeral, said: I am saddened. This was our lawyer. This is the man that gave us the assurance. He has never asked us for money when he represented us in court matters. I have always wondered where he got the money from because every time we had a problem he and Dullah Omar would come together. Mayor Patricia de Lille said Judge Moosa will forever be remembered as one of Cape Town s great sons and for his integral role in the fight for freedom and equality. UWC rector and vice-chancellor Professor Tyrone Pretorius said: We will remember him for his many contributions to this university and to this country, as well as for his role in helping to craft our current constitution and as a community leader. He will be dearly missed. 