Springbok legend Joost van der Westhuizen's long-term wish to establish a world-class centre for neurodegenerative diseases lives on. This is according to Joost van der Westhuizen Centre for Neurodegeneration director Odette Schwegler after Van der Westhuizen s death this week due to his battle with motor neurone disease (MND). The Joost van der Westhuizen story doesn t end here. I made my friend a promise, and I am a girl of my word. There is much work to be done and done it will be. Joost knew that his dream for an international centre may seem big, but he was a man who was accustomed to great things, and he saw his rugby days as a training field for work he was doing for MND, said Schwegler. In 2014, the 43-year-old Van der Westhuizen and his team announced their aim to raise about R4 million, possibly more, to build the centre. It would provide patients with care and drive research across the group of diseases.Van der Westhuizen was diagnosed with the disease in 2011. Motor neurone disease is a progressive neurological disorder that destroys motor neurons, the cells that control essential voluntary muscle activity such as speaking, walking and breathing. With a health-care system facing a quadruple burden of disease in the form of HIV, tuberculosis, strokes and heart disease, rare diseases like MND are seen as less of a priority in terms of research and specialised units. &quot;Under the umbrella of the Joost van der Westhuizen Centre for Neurodegeneration, Joost s team will continue the work he so bravely started; intending to establish MND clinics at hospitals nationwide, with a view to eventually establishing a purpose-built Centre of Excellence, she said. Schwegler said another drive was to foster relationships with international partners to bolster much-needed research and establish clinical trials in South Africa. Joost experienced first-hand how the disease progressively destroyed his motor neurons, the cells that control essential voluntary muscle activity such as speaking, walking, breathing and swallowing. Inspired by a 2013 tour of international centres and the work being done abroad, Joost s ultimate goal was to establish a purpose-built centre of excellence which will provide patients with world-class care and drive research across the group of diseases. Schwegler said experts predicted a steady increase in MND patients seeking medical care, although the numbers of patients fighting the disease was relatively low. The centre said that by extrapolating international figures, it was possible to predict that there should be between 750 and 1 500 new cases of the disease diagnosed in South Africa every year, with between 4 500 and 9 000 people living with the disease at any time. To date, Joost s team has worked with neurology units at Tygerberg and Groote Schuur hospitals to establish multidisciplinary MND clinics, ignite and help fund research in South Africa. &quot;More recently, the Chris Hani team, spearheaded by Professor Andre Mochan, has taken up the challenge in the quest for a cure, she said. In taking Joost s dream to a reality, the Gauteng Department of Health has taken the additional steps of initiating a public health programme, providing supplies and transport for patients from anywhere in the province to the clinics, said Schwegler. [email&#160;protected]