A SIXTY-SEVEN-year-old grandmother from Mfuleni living in a single-room shack has appealed to the government for assistance to help her build her own house.Nozipho Fudumele s daughter died in 2014, leaving her to care for her grandson, who is now 18.Her daughter, Dolly Qayiso, had been given a plot in Mfuleni and the family moved there from their previous home in KTC, Gugulethu.When Qayiso died, plans to build the low-cost government-subsidised house on the plot came to a halt because Fudumele had not been the original applicant for the housing subsidy.Three years later, there are hardly any shacks in Jury Road, but Fudumele s house remains the only one in her street built from corrugated iron, wood and plastic.Her grandson Abel Qayiso is currently in matric and depends on her old-age social grant for support because he no longer qualifies for the child support grant.Fudumele complains that when it rains her shack is usually flooded, and she and her grandson spend the next morning mopping up their home.She complains that she has to spend a significant part of her old age pension to fix her shack.Her appeals for assistance through street committees and local politicians have fallen on deaf ears.Fudumele says she feels vulnerable. She is not getting any assistance from the government to alleviate her unbearable living conditions.She says living on asocial grant in her old age is difficult. Every penny has to be watched, shopping lists have to be kept tight and money saved for bills. Abel s school fees are also a priority. There is no room for luxuries. Life is hard. I have given up on living in a brick house because I have no one to help me, she said.Community activist Sheila Sogiba said Fudumele did not have to live under such conditions at her age. It is just sad, a very unfortunate situation, because all the neighbours in her neighbourhood have benefited in a housing development and she was the only one left out. Ntomboxolo Makoba-Somdaka, spokesperson for Human Settlements MEC Bonginkosi Madikizela, said the department's records showed that Fudumele was not registered on the housing needs database.With regard to her late daughter, Makoba-Somdaka said the department would investigate the circumstances and see how it could assist. I would advise that she registers on the City of Cape Town s housing list. Registration includes a field for disability, in which she can indicate her special need. To expedite her case once registered, the pensioner must approach her local councillor, furnish him with her information and request that the councillor engage with the municipality or the provincial department on her behalf to prioritise her for an upcoming housing opportunity. MEC Madikizela is passionate about prioritising the most deserving, said Makoba-Somdaka.Social Development MEC Albert Fritz s spokeperson, Sihle Ngobese, said: Any members of the public experiencing undue hardship are always welcome to visit any of our local or regional offices, and seek information and assistance. He said: Nobody should ever suffer alone. Social workers will assist with assessing the family's particular needs, and will liaise with Sassa (South African Social Security Agency) to determine whether any direct financial or other assistance is available.&quot;Social workers may also approach NGOs in a bid to render help&quot;. Alternatively, Ngobese said, the public can reach the department on the DSD hotline, 0800 220 250.