The Lions handed the All Blacks a home defeat for the first time since 2009 in Wellington last weekend to level the series and force a decider back at New Zealand’s rugby fortress Eden Park. Exuding a calm he might hope his side emulates after selecting a team with two fresh starters and a trio of Barrett brothers, Hansen said he thought there had been some over-reaction to last weekend’s 24-21 defeat. “It’s not the first time we have lost. I have read a lot of stories this week, you’d think the All Blacks have never lost a game and the sky is falling in,” he said. “Every week there’s pressure. We are expected to win every Test match and expected to win them well. You’ve got to walk towards it and at the end of the day life tells you we’re only playing a rugby game.” Hansen, who has overseen just five defeats in 71 Tests since he took over after the 2011 World Cup win, was a policeman before he took up coaching reins and warmed to a theme he has expanded on before. “Real pressure is spending half an hour giving someone CPR and trying to save their life,” he added. “Then, if that doesn’t work, telling their children or father or mother that you were unable to save them. That’s real pressure. What we’re doing is playing a game of rugby. “You can win, you can lose, you can draw and whatever the outcome, we will be better for it. We’re a young side in the infancy of where we’re going. “Is there any more pressure this week than last week? No, because we have to win to win the series. We haven’t changed our week too much,” Hansen added. - Reuters Meanwhile, British and Irish Lions coach Warren Gatland was not keen to undermine the magnitude of what his side can achieve. A series victory would be a massive feather in the cap for New Zealander Gatland and with Hansen expected to call it quits when his contract ends in 2020, the former hooker has been mentioned as a possible successor with his Wales contract expiring in 2019. “I’m a great believer in what will be will be,” Gatland told reporters on Thursday when asked if a Lions series victory against the All Blacks would be career defining. “That’s the way I’ve always been. I don’t think about the future. I don’t sit here and plan what I’m going to do in 2019 or next year,” he added. “Things happen and I’ve been lucky enough to be in the right place at the right time. For me the future will take care of itself. That’s the way I look at the way things over the next couple of years. “Saturday will be great to win but then the preparation and the focus goes on the autumn, the Six Nations and preparing Wales for the World Cup in 2019.” Gatland, perhaps with tongue in cheek, also suggested that he was just as likely to go sit on the beach after the World Cup in Japan and happily retire. He turns 56 just before the 2019 tournament begins. The former Wasps and Ireland coach, however, did acknowledge his players were aware of the importance of the Eden Park match if they were not getting overly wrought about it quite yet. “They have an opportunity to leave a bit of a legacy. This hasn’t been done since 1971,” Gatland said.  “I have no doubt... the players will start thinking about it later on but there’s no point in getting emotionally too involved. It’s too far away. 