The stick-wielding guards embarked on the march having heard that their demands to be employed permanently by the city had been turned down. The demonstrators are among more than 3000 security guards whose jobs are on the line as a result of the city’s termination of contracts with the private security companies for which the guards work. Last week the guards submitted a memorandum of grievances to city manager Moeketsi Mosola, giving him a three-day ultimatum to address their demands. In the memorandum, they objected to the city’s move to replace them with metro police officers. Mosola responded in writing, telling them the city was not in a position to hire them. In the letter, Mosola informed them that the services of their employers were procured in terms of the municipality’s supply chain management policy. “In line with the aforementioned policy, once the term of the contract or tender comes to an end, the contractor leaves with its employees and equipment,” Mosola wrote. He said it was unfortunate that the city “cannot accommodate you in its ranks as it will be utilising its alternative methods of providing this service”. Earlier, the security guards embarked on a picket outside Tshwane House.They chanted slogans denouncing the DA-led administration under mayor Solly Msimanga. Msimanga was unavailable and MMC for Community Safety Derrick Kissoonduth came out to address them. But he soon went back inside the building without speaking to them, claiming he was not mandated to address the guards. The guards initially refused to depart from the city’s headquarters until they were addressed by Msimanga, but they subsequently left. Their leader Isaac Sibanda said the workers marched to the municipal offices after Mosola refused to renew the contracts of private security companies. On their way to the EFF offices, the guards allegedly intimidated security officers who were on duty at other city buildings in the city. Outside the EFF offices, the marchers continued to sing and demanded to know why the party leaders had failed to influence the municipality not to terminate the contracts. They complained that the EFF leaders let them down by allowing the “white DA” to decide their fate. EFF leader in the city Obakeng Ramabodu rejected claims that the party had sold out, saying the guards should not be used by opportunists wanting to hijack their genuine concerns. “We are not going to sell you out. We know our constituency. Allow us to lead and judge us when we fail. You are not fighting with us. This issue has even reached the ears of the commander-in-chief (Julius Malema),” he said. He slammed the ANC for failing to insource the guards when it was in power. “We are going to fight for you to be insourced. No mayor will tell us that there is no money,” Ramabodu said.