The province of Mpumalanga looks set to provide the presidential aspirations of Cyril Ramaphosa with a huge boost. Once part of the grouping known as the Premier League - together with the Free State and North West provinces - Mpumalanga seemed to distance himself from this arrangement this week when its premier, David Mabuza, told the media: I m no longer part of a faction. However, he stopped short of openly backing Ramaphosa.But he didn t need to. There were others to do it for him.Some delegates from the province confirmed they would start campaigning for Ramaphosa as soon as they return home from the part s policy conference.It will be an earnest campaign, a source promised, adding that Mpumalanga also wanted Mabuza to be deputy president.The same source said Mabuza had been summoned for a discussion by his erstwhile colleagues in the Premier League, where he had been accused of selling out .Ramaphosa was in the province in May where he addressed students during a graduation ceremony.Earlier, he had also addressed a Workers Day rally in the province. He was followed to Mpumalanga by Mineral Resources Minister Mosebenzi Zwane, who is allied to the Premier League . The response to him as opposed to Ramaphosa was as different as chalk from cheese.Zwane was chased out of Middelburg where he had been scheduled to address people about the Mining Charter.A delegate said Zwane had been chased away because he did not tell Mabuza he was visiting the province. We will consolidate our campaign after the policy conference, he said.Mabuza had been backed by the KwaZulu-Natal ANC Youth League to replace Ramaphosa as the deputy president. The league s provincial chairperson, Kwazi Mshengu, said the league would continue to support Mabuza.He accused Ramaphosa s supporters of spreading disinformation. The national stand is still the same that we will support DD (Mabuza) to be the deputy president in the next conference of the ANC, he said. I have spoken to the president of the youth league, and I have spoken to the SG and none of them are aware of where the story has come from, he added.Mshengu denied that Mabuza held different views from the youth league on the issue of expropriation of land without compensation. We are together in saying let us expropriate without compensation, said Mshengu.But Mabuza said he did not back calls for the expropriation of land without compensation. He said there was nothing wrong with the constitution.Mshengu said Mabuza s statement that he did not want to be part of factionalism should not be interpreted as meaning that he was leaving Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma s side to move to the Ramaphosa side.He said the league agreed party members should not be part of factions and that we must strive to unite the organisation . Any interpretation to say moving out of the position of the youth league to that of comrade Cyril Ramaphosa is ditching a faction. The ANCYL s KwaZulu-Natal spokesperson, Mandla Shange, said rumours that Mabuza was leaving the Dlamini Zuma camp or the ANC had dropped him was linked to Mpumalanga s withdrawal from opposing the Diagnostic Report, which ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe had presented to delegates on Friday. It was seen as an indictment of President Jacob Zuma.