The call comes as 40 children with burn wounds are assisted by the Smile Foundation to undergo surgery at the Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital during Smile Week, while Cody, the horse severely burnt in the recent Knysna fires, was on the mend. And yesterday fire killed  Ayabonga Mkele, 12 in Delft. In an effort to further its assistance to vulnerable children in need, the Smile Foundation launched its Smile Week which this year focuses on children with burn injuries. Nqaba Magoloza, aged two, was a year younger when he sustained severe shrinking and scarring in his hand after being burnt by hot boiling water from the kettle last year. He and 4-year-old Shaquaanay Janklaas are among the children assisted during Smile Week. Nqaba’s mother, Nomathemba Magoloza, 30 from Khayelitsha said they could not afford to pay for the surgery. A joyful Magoloza said: “I am very happy that Nqaba will be getting help, and by God’s grace Smile Foundation was there to help us.” Hedley Lewis, Smile Foundation chief executive, said they had five days of surgery for 40 children in nine theatres. They are getting help not only from Red Cross surgeons, but other state and private surgeons. Smile Foundation Operation executive director Moirsa Gerszt said: “The collaboration of the Clicks Helping Hand Trust Fund and the Avela Foundation enables both organisations to come together and extend their financial support for the maximum benefit to the children.” Avela founder Camo Palmo said: “We feel very blessed that Smile Foundation is allowing us to partner with them to help these angels.” Clicks Helping Hand Trust manager Germinah Nyikana said they help with clinics for the disadvantaged. Meanwhile, the eight-year-old horse Cody, who sustained severe burn wounds on his face during the Knysna fires that claimed the lives of nine people and destroyed more than 400 houses, is on the mend. Cody’s owner, Karen Rademeyer, believes it is a mystery how an animal which suffered such severe burns was still alive. Rademeyer said that Cody had gone missing for 16 days and was then spotted walking alongside the N2 highway just 100 metres from his home. Most of Cody’s burn treatment products were donated and the vet costs that were partially covered by the South African Veterinary Association have unfortunately come to an end. A crowdfunding campaign was set up on Backabuddy, whose marketing officer Zane Groenewald said: “We accommodate a variety of non-profit organisations and assist them in diversifying their income streams through crowdfunding.” Contact Smile Foundation on www.smilefoundation.co.za or 0861 276 453. Make a donation today. Help put a smile on a child’s face today. SMS “Smile” to 38413 to donate R10. To support Cody’s campaign please donate here: www.backabuddy.co.za/champion/project/cody-recovery-fund-search-team-fund