In a complaint sent to provincial police commissioner Khombinkosi Jula, resident Kevin Alexander said Kensington and Factreton had a population of about 22 000 people, and there were frequently only four members on duty at a time, which meant a police/population ratio of 1:5 500. “Even worse, with only two members on patrol outside on most days, that leaves us with a shocking ratio of 1:11 000. The high levels of crime in Kensington and Factreton are destroying lives, properties and morale in our people, especially our vulnerable youth,” Alexander said. He said complaints to the SAPS 10111 emergency number often result in “zero response” from the police with some residents reporting that when complaints are followed up they are told that there are only two or three members on duty. This as members of the Kensington CPF announced they would march on Sunday to bring awareness of the residents’ plight. The committee said gang violence had flared up, leaving residents feeling even more unsafe. “Mid-June this year had seen a flare-up in gang violence between the known gangs in Kensington after the killing of a known 'American' called Faiek Phode. He was shot in Albacore Street. "Since the fatal shooting, we have experienced daily shootings, irrespective of the time of day,” they said. The march was expected to begin at 2.30pm, starting on the corner of Sunderland Street and Vliegtuig Avenue. Police spokesperson André Traut said Jula had received the letter from the residents. “Police management in the Western Cape is acutely aware of any demands in terms of policing. Therefore action plans are put in place, and the provincial commissioner and his management team visit stations regularly to monitor the implementation of these plans,” Traut said. The police have come under fire from civil rights organisations, which described the current distribution of resources in poor black communities as "apartheid-style". Last year, the Social Justice Coalition (SJC) and Equal Education took the then-minister of police to court on police resource allocation. The case is expected to be heard in the Western Cape High Court next month. Dalli Weyers, senior researcher in the SJC’s Safety and Justice Programme, presented statistics that showed how areas with less violent crime, which were well-resourced, were largely white and wealthy.