The standing committee on public accounts (Scopa) has accused Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini of pushing former South African Social Security Agency CEO Thokozani Magwaza out of his job. Scopa chairperson Themba Godi said yesterday that Magwaza did not resign, but was pushed. Earlier, Magwaza told The Star of death threats against him, saying he had reported them to Crime Intelligence at the police. This was before Dlamini issued a statement that Magwaza and the department had parted ways. “This thing has been going on for a while. I spoke to Crime Intelligence. I don’t want to talk about the stuff,” said Magwaza. Magwaza could not be reached for comment after his departure from the department. Godi insisted that Magwaza had been pushed because he did not agree with Dlamini. He said they were shocked and angry at the latest twist of events at Sassa. “The minister, instead of protecting Magwaza, pushed him out. They are right in the middle of finalising a contract with the South African Post Office,” said Godi. The Scopa chairperson said he hoped Magwaza’s departure would not impact on the negotiations over a contract with Sapo. “My understanding is that the minister pushed him out because their relationship has irretrievably broken down,” said Godi. Dlamini’s spokesperson Lumka Oliphant refused to be drawn into any speculation and said the ministry stood by its statement on the parting of ways between Magwaza and the department. “The Minister of Social Development, Ms Bathabile Dlamini, and the CEO of Sassa, Mr Thokozani Magwaza, have agreed to terminate the services of the latter after a consultative process led by the head of legal services, advocate Nkosinathi Dladla, in terms of the provisions of his contract of employment,” said Oliphant. Magwaza was due to file papers in the Constitutional Court on why Dlamini should pay legal costs from her own pocket. Opposition parties and civil society have also accused Dlamini of firing Magwaza. DA  spokesperson on social development Bridget Masango described the relationship between the former Sassa CEO with Dlamini as strained. “The DA is gravely concerned about Magwaza’s departure as he has played an important role in finding an alternative service provider in line with the Constitutional Court deadline of March 31, 2018,” said Masango. IFP spokesperson on social development Liesl van der Merwe said Magwaza was pushed for speaking out. “It is clear that Mr Magwaza has been pushed out of his position after he spoke out against Minister Bathabile Dlamini’s manufacturing of the CPS/Sassa crisis in affidavits to the Constitutional Court,” said Van der Merwe. The Organisation Undoing Tax Abuse also spoke out against Magwaza’s departure from Sassa. It said it was clear that Magwaza had been pushed out of the job.