Harare - Zimbabwe’s first lady Grace Mugabe has told relatives she is worried about the behaviour of her two sons, Robert Jnr 25, and Chatunga, 21, who were recently evicted for bad behaviour from the R70 000 a month flat they rented in Sandton. Mugabe was allegedly talking at a joint birthday she shared with her older sister last weekend, according to Newsday, a privately-owned Zimbabwe newspaper. "I am telling you because the behaviour of children does not matter if they are the president’s children or not. All children are mischievous these days,” she reportedly told guests at the party at a farm near Harare. “I have seen parents wearing torn clothes because their kids are demanding top-end trending clothes. In schools and universities, children are competing on fashion and they do not heed to parental advice,” she said. “Nowadays there are spirits attacking our children. The spirit of drinking, drug abuse and doing other abnormal things way beyond their age,” Grace said, indicating she could be on the verge of a breakdown. “If I am to say women stand up to talk about your children, very few women can be brave enough to talk about that without breaking down.” The Mugabe sons have not denied they were kicked out from the Sandton apartment last month. They moved to South Africa this year after their sudden departure, allegedly in connection with substance abuse,  from Dubai where they had been living and studying. A blurred but funny short video has emerged which is doing the social media rounds in Zimbabwe exile circles in South Africa and London, showing two young men, both dressed in the style of Robert Jnr and Chatunga. The characters in the video are screeching with laughter, and look stoned out of their minds, bouncing around on the top of vehicles, in a car park. Grace Mugabe’s oldest son, Russell, from her first marriage has also made several headlines in Zimbabwe media over his turbulent 
private and professional life. The Mugabe sons could claim South African citizenship as their mother was born in Benoni. Independent Foreign Service