“Anti-state capture” forces have vowed that their civil society organisations’ conference today will not be another talk shop. The group were to meet in Joburg to voice their disapproval of President Jacob Zuma’s continued stay as leader of the country. The Conference for the Future of South Africa (Cofusa), organised by the Ahmed Kathrada Foundation and Save South Africa, will bring together close to 400 delegates from over 90 civil society organisations in order to build a “new broad front against state capture”. Cofusa convener Mandla Nkomfe was adamant at a briefing yesterday that the conference will adopt an action plan in order to deal with what he called the country’s immediate crisis of the “billions of rand” which he said had been stolen with the aid of Zuma’s administration. This, he added, would allow civil society to continue playing a critical role in the country’s future. “We should notice the resurgence of civil society organisations and actions,” Nkomfe emphasised, alluding to what he deemed was the good work done by the Black Sash during the social grants scandal earlier this year. “I think what is happening here (with Cofusa) is more of a co-ordinated effort to check (which organisation) is doing what; and pushing back to make sure there is social justice for our society.” Conference delegates, according to Save SA convener Sipho Pityana, will also need to adopt strategies on how they can persuade ANC members of Parliament to vote against Zuma when the motion of no-confidence vote is held in the National Assembly early next month. Last month, the Constitutional Court ruled that Speaker Baleka Mbete had powers to order the no-confidence vote to be done via secret ballot – and Pityana said they would put pressure on the Speaker to order a secret ballot as there would not be “free and fair voting in Parliament without a secret ballot”. ANC parliamentary chief whip Jackson Mthembu has issued a stern warning to his party’s MPs not to vote for the motion brought by the opposition, warning there would be consequences for MPs who defied the party. However, Pityana had a different view. “A position against Jacob Zuma is not a position against the ANC. President Zuma represents a fundamental and a most profound betrayal of the most important values of the ANC,” he contended. “He (Zuma) has sold the country out; he has betrayed many of us.” Pityana did, however, acknowledge the “precarious” position ANC legislators were in due to the no-confidence motion, saying MPs such as the outspoken Makhosi Khoza had received death threats for going against her caucus’  instruction to vote with the party. “It is a tough position to be in, as a member of Parliament, and we are not indifferent to their circumstances. But we want to work with them; we want to engage them and that’s what we are talking about.” The ANC caucus slammed Khoza’s views earlier this month, accusing her of going on a “publicity spree”. Khoza has seemingly defied the caucus’s views, as she was expected to address the conference today. @khayakoko88