The month of June delivered forces of nature to the Western Cape that wreaked havoc, resulting in residents losing homes and businesses, lives being lost and severe damage to many structures, including hundreds of schools across the province. The people affected by the recent storm, and fires in Knysna, are reliant on the support of others and will spend months trying to rebuild their lives, their homes, their towns and communities. Good Hope FM in association with GrandWest Casino and Entertainment World, Independent Media and supported by the SABC Foundation, have joined forces to host the United in Hope Benefit Concert, taking place on Saturday, August 5, in the GrandArena to raise funds for those whose lives have been affected by the severe weather events. The line-up features many of South Africa’s chart-topping artists including, Locnville, Tresor, Chad Saaiman, Nasty C, Dominic Neill, Lakota Silva, dance company, Afrika Ablaze, New Hero, Can Skylark and many more. All the artists are giving their time and talent pro bono in support of those who really need it. “We all feel an initial sense of helplessness when a natural disaster hits our communities and we see other people suffering all around us, but don’t always have the means or know-how to help. "Together we can make a significant contribution and, most importantly, give hope to those affected,” said Good Hope FM station manager Brendan Ficks. “We encourage the people of Cape Town to come out and support this initiative. "Every cent raised goes towards the two organisations we have nominated to receive the proceeds, the Community Chest and the South African Red Cross Society,” Ficks said. Good Hope FM presenters Nigel Pierce, Kyeezi, Danilo Acquisto, Dan Corder and Stan Mars will MC the event, and the audience can look forward to comedy from Good Hope FM presenters (and comedians) Dalin Oliver and Carl Weber, as well as South Africa’s top ventriloquist, Conrad Koch. Tickets are R150 and are can be purchased from Computicket.  For more information and for an up to date line-up of artists, visit www.goodhopefm.co.za 