Simpson and nine other small-scale farmers from the Caledon-Greyton-Genadendal-Riviersonderend area have been eagerly awaiting the outcome of the judgment. The municipality had instituted a by-law allowing for the impounding of livestock wandering into public or commonage (municipal) grounds. Simpson, affectionately known to locals as “Oom Pops”, said that he could not put into words the relief the outcome has brought him, his wife, children and grandchildren. “Without my horses I have been struggling and working odd jobs but it does not compare to how much I am able to make with them. ‘‘I am waiting for my lawyer to tell me what happens next but the fact still remains where do I take them when I have them?” asked Simpson. He said small-scale farmers needed to be united now more than ever in order to  get the land they needed to sustain themselves and provide for their futures. The TWK Municipality had filed an application to sell 10 horses held in the Caledon Pound, to determine a reserve price at an auction for these animals, or sell them at a market-related price and to issue a Rule Nisi to effect this decree. But the court found that the impoundment procedure in terms of the municipality’s by-law and the subsequent application procedure was not followed correctly and dismissed their application with costs. Simpson’s lawyer, Rosewetha Johnson, said a consultation with the municipality’s legal counsel is scheduled for next week, the outcome of which would determine if the horses would be released. Meanwhile, Nosinothi Ntsombo, 80, lost her 16 goats last year when the municipality auctioned them off because she could not afford a fine to release them from the pound. Her goats were impounded after grazing along the side of a road in the town. Vukani Farmers Association chairperson Bonginkosi Bongelasaid they welcomed the outcome of Oom Pop’s case and reiterated that land remained key for small-scale farmers. The Trust for Community Outreach  spokesperson, Boyce Tom, said small-scale farmers had been using municipal land for over 15 years and the municipality insisted that it held no mandate to provide land for people. “We need to come together with the TWK municipality and engage on the matter of land and work towards shifting the inequality surrounding commonage land. “Only together can we  begin a process of empowering small-scale farmers if all involved are willing to commit to such engagements,”said Tom. TWK deputy municipal manager Stiffy Cronje said the municipality had received the judgment. He said they were engaging with their legal counsel and would consider their options in dealing with the matter.  dominic.adriaanse@inl.co.za 