This comes after a groundbreaking judgment in the high court in Pretoria yesterday in which Judge Ronel Tolmay declared two sections of the Firearms Control Act unconstitutional. These deal with the procedures which should be followed in renewing firearm licences. Judge Tolmay said the current system dealing with the renewal of firearm licences was clearly chaotic and called it “dysfunctional”. The judge gave the government 18 months to get its house in order and to streamline the processing of valid firearm licences. She set aside sections 24 and 28 of the act and gave Parliament 18 months within which to effect the amendment of the legislation to ensure constitutional compliance. She further ordered that all licences issued under this act, which are or were due to be renewed, shall be deemed to be valid until the Constitutional Court and Parliament spoke the last word on the issue. Firearm law expert and lawyer Martin Hood said the practical effect of this landmark judgment was that firearm owners who had handed their guns to the police because their licences had expired could now go and demand them back. Another practical effect was that there was no need at this stage to renew any lawfully issued firearm licence, whether it had expired or not, until the Constitutional Court or Parliament had streamlined the act. This would take about 18 months, Hood said. The judge said, as things stand, there is confusion among gun owners as to how to go about renewing firearm licences which had already lapsed. She said there was a clear need to streamline the process. Her judgment followed an application by the South African Hunters and Game Conservation Association, which expressed its concern at the present “chaotic and dysfunctional” system of licensing firearms and the administration of firearms. It said there was a lack of clarity on how to go about renewing firearm licences after they had lapsed. The court was told that a draft Firearm Control Amendment Bill was on the table, which would have addressed these uncertainties. The government said the bill was due to be introduced in Parliament by September 2016, but this had not happened. The judge said it was unfortunate that the court was forced to entertain a matter that could have been resolved by the proposed bill. She also commented that the“sorry state of affairs” regarding the dysfunctional system was acknowledged by former police minister Nathi Nhleko during this application. The judge found that there was unequal treatment of firearm owners in the sense that if a licence expired innocently, the owner had no way of renewing or disposing of it. On the other hand, if the owner was declared unfit to possess a firearm, there were legal means of disposing of it.