Stormers coach Robbie Fleck says the heart-breaking 17-11 Super Rugby quarter-final defeat to the Chiefs on Saturday night “does actually” feel worse than last year’s 60-point mauling at Newlands. The Cape outfit were in with a chance of causing an upset with five minutes to go as they trailed 12-11, but a missed late penalty by fullback SP Marais proved costly as the Chiefs scored the winning try through replacement wing Shaun Stevenson with four minutes left on the clock. The Stormers had their chances to win the game, but poor execution with ball-in-hand, a rock-solid Chiefs defence and a few questionable decisions all contributed to the loss. The biggest moment of the game arguably arrived just after the hour mark, after Chiefs flank Sam Cane was yellow-carded for a dangerous tackle on Dillyn Leyds. The Stormers got another penalty soon afterwards with the score at 12-8 to the Chiefs, and instead of setting up a lineout inside the opposition’s 22 – with the Chiefs down to seven forwards – they opted for the posts, which Marais kicked over to make it 12-11. Captain
Siya Kolisi, though, seemed as if he wanted to go for touch, but kicking coach
Vlok Cilliers ran on to the pitch with a kicking tee in hand, ostensibly to implore the skipper to go for the three points.  Conditioning
coach Steph du Toit then also appeared on the scene to convince Kolisi, and it
was only then that the Springbok flank told referee Jaco Peyper that they were
going for a shot at goal. About nine minutes later, the Stormers again opted for goal despite the penalty being awarded close to the touchline, and this time Marais pushed it to the left. But the game was wrapped by Stevenson a few minutes later as the Chiefs masterfully mixed up their play with forwards bashing it up and the backs stretching the Stormers defence, before Stevenson went over without an opponent in sight.   “I think it does (feel worse than last year’s 60-21 loss to the Chiefs), actually. We were just saying in the change room afterwards, that last year’s loss was pretty humiliating. There was a feeling that this year is a lot, lot tougher to swallow – especially with how far we’ve come in the last 12 months,” Fleck said in the post-match press conference. “It was on a knife’s edge. With one point in it with five minutes to go, we had an opportunity to go ahead in the game and, yeah… “I don’t know if the best team won, but we are certainly a better outfit than what we were 12 months ago. So, it’s a tough loss for us. It’s been a long sort of journey for us, and I’m happy with where we are with our game at the moment. “We’ve shown massive improvement, and there are lots of good signs, you know. This team can only get better.” Fleck said it was hard to figure out immediately after the game where it had all gone wrong for the Stormers, who are once again left empty-handed after a season that promised so much at the start, where their attacking approach paid dividends. “It was a difficult game. There were errors from both sides, so it’s quite tough to pinpoint where we went wrong. We were one point down with five minutes to go, so I can’t say specifically that we got this wrong and that wrong,” the former Springbok centre said. “They took their opportunities when they presented themselves, and Siya spoke about it afterwards, that individual errors probably let us down. “We were competitive for the full length of the game, we had them under pressure in the set-piece – one or two lineouts were lost at the beginning, but it improved as the game went on. “Our mauls went effectively and our scrum started to dominate at the end of the game. Defensively, to keep the Chiefs scoreless with five minutes to go… So, you can’t fault the defence.” @ashfakmohamed  IOL Sport  Like us on Facebook   Follow us on Twitter 