Patel was among several dignitaries paying their final tributes at Bernickow’s funeral in St George’s Cathedral on Saturday. Bernickow, aged 56, died on June 26 after a long battle with cancer. Patel said Bernickow devoted his life to the cause of workers. He rose from a messenger at Cape Argus to  organiser of the Media Workers Association of SA (Mwasa), to senior leadership of Cosatu-affiliated Southern African Clothing and Textile Workers Union. He had played a key role in the merger talks that had led to the formation of Cosatu and was appointed its regional administrator in 1985. As a national senior commissioner, Bernickow had led talks that finalised a solution between business, labour and government on aspects of the labour market, and had facilitated on the National Minimum Wage. “We pay tribute to a young man from the Cape Flats, who lived life to the fullest, gave to the community and whose life we celebrate. He was hard-working, selfless, modest and passionate about the cause of the workers,”said Patel. He said Bernickow believed in non-racialism, had a strong and enduring commitment to social justice, a commitment to organising ordinary people, spoke truth to power, was energetic and exhibited idealism, courage and sacrifice in facing the odds. Patel urged mourners not to allow the legacy which people like Bernickow had left behind, to be buried. Bernickow had been pleased to hear about two developmental bursaries being established and named in his honour, Patel said. Bernickow’s former colleague Connie September, an ANC MP, recalled how Bernickow had transformed the textile industry’s management/ worker relations through his leadership of Sactwu. Close friends and Struggle activists Chris Ferndale and Enrico Fourie  spoke of their shared anti-apartheid political activism and life experiences. “He was the master organiser. He was also a member of the SACP and the ANC, but never wore his membership on his sleeve,” said Fourie. : Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa sent condolences to the Bernickow family following their loss. “We have lost a giant who served the workers of our country and the labour movement with humble distinction. The historic Nedlac agreement reached by social partners benefited greatly from the facilitation undertaken by Berni, who brought his vast experience as a seasoned negotiator to bear on this important national task,” he said.