“It is bad apples, who are a minority, that taint the nameconstable  of the police. "We need to rid the SAPS of such rotten members. Their place is in jail among criminals,” Mbalula said. This as police launched a manhunt for his four alleged accomplices who were dressed in uniform when they allegedly threatened a Tafelsig resident in an attempt to steal the contents of a safe yesterday. Mbalula has urged police management in the province to ensure that the four suspects still on the loose, are apprehended speedily. The police vehicle's registration number led to the arrest of the driver of the vehicle, according to police spokesperson Andre Traut. “It is alleged that four suspects dressed in police uniform threatened the complainant at his home and attempted to steal a container with contents, but it was left behind when they fled. "Four more suspects are still being sought.” The Mitchells Plain community police forum chairperson Abie Isaacs said, “We want to applaud the community for giving the information that led to the arrest. "That clearly illustrates to us that partnership policing is pivotal. "As a policing forum we are worried and concerned that a police uniform was used in this incident and we are requesting the police to look into this matter seriously.” Isaacs said the CPF was aware that the matter had been handed to the SVC (serious and violent crimes) unit for further investigation. “We want to start with the root causes of crime (in our communities). "It is good that the police are dealing with this internally too. "How the people got the uniforms, police should investigate that as well. It is a concern and a worry to us.” Isaacs said it was “alarming” that a police uniform was used in the commission of a crime. He said the forum had only read about the phenomenon in Gauteng where people in police uniform were pulling people off the road and committing crimes. “It's never been so rife in Cape Town where there are bogus police. “We are taking this matter seriously and we will be engaging with the station management and with our community awareness campaign to root out these bogus cops and be cautious around them. "We will be going all out to engage the public.”