Janna Ayyad Jihad didn’t flinch. The soldiers may have been double her size, and armed with rifles and gas canisters, but she refused to back down. “Of course, I was fearful of what may happen,” says the 11-year-old. “If you don't have fear, you're not normal. But you should never let your fear control you.” The young Palestinian activist, who was just nine at the time, was taking part in a peaceful demonstration in her village of Nabi Saleh in Palestine in 2015, when she was approached by a group of Israeli soldiers. “They tried scaring me and intimidating me at first, but I stood firm and did my best to put on a brave face. “They then took their guns out and started hitting me with it on my legs. They beat me up so badly that I was unable to walk for a week.” But the child's violent assault did little to discourage her from continuing to demonstrate against military occupation in her home village on the West Bank. The next week, Janna was back on the streets of Nabi Saleh. “If we let fear control us, we will never achieve our dream of enjoying freedom and peace in Palestine,” she says. “There are a lot of innocent children that are suffering and that are being killed. “Too much blood is being shed. So we have to make sure that the next generation lives in a world of peace, a world of love, and a world of quality.” Since 2009, village residents of Nabi Saleh have marched every Friday to protest against the continued expansion of the settlement of Halamish on privately-owned Palestinian land, settler attacks and the take-over of their village. However, the Israeli army have countered these marches with tear gas, rubber coated steel bullets, and live ammunition, causing injuries and countless deaths. “Life in Palestine is incredibly hard because of the Zionist occupation,” says Janna. “Living in a war-torn country, losing lots of people you love, seeing their blood on the streets, is not the way anyone should be living.” Janna, and two other young Palestinian activists, Ahed Tamimi (16), and Muhammed Nawajah (13), arrived in South Africa last week to create awareness about the plight of Palestinians. The trio will also be taking part in the Tricon Film Fest, and are the focus of a documentary called Radiance of Résistance. The documentary tells the story of Janna and Ahed who live under military occupation in Nabi Saleh. The group is being hosted in SA by the Ahmed Kathrada Foundation among several other foundations. “I try to live my childhood as best as I can, but it's hard. When we're playing outside, Israeli soldiers come and start shooting at us. We get pepper sprayed and have gas canisters thrown at us. “Occupation is a thing that you cannot even imagine. They are stealing land, killing children, burning children, arresting my friends and injuring loved ones. “They don't let us go and see the sea. I've never even gone to the Palestinian Mediterranean Sea.” Janna goes to bed each night fearing she might never see her loved ones again. “I'm very afraid to lose my friends, to lose my mom, to lose someone that loves me. I'm never safe. I feel like I'm not in a safe place because a lot of times settlers just come in and just kill children with their cars. “We have humanity, we have mercy, not like them.” Apart from being at the forefront of demonstrations in Nabi Saleh, Janna is also one of the youngest journalists in the world. She reports from her village in the West Bank on the ongoing conflict. The young reporter from Nabi Saleh, which has a population of 600, captures footage daily of locals pushing back against Israeli occupation. “I started doing my work as a journalist when I was seven ... when I saw there weren't enough journalists to cover the things that happened in Nabi Saleh especially and in all of Palestine. “My uncle and one of my best friends had been killed by soldiers and no one in the world had reported on it. I told myself why not be that journalist who covers everything?” Janna dreams of one day studying at Harvard University, and then hopes to work at news broadcaster CNN. “I want to go to work for CNN because they don't tell the truth and I want to go and tell the truth to the whole world ... I want to show the whole world that even under war and under occupation you can achieve anything.” Ahed, who doesn't live too far away from Janna in Nabi Saleh, says her dream was to become a professional footballer. But it seems impossible. “It's so hard to live in an occupied village and occupied country. Your dreams won't stay as you want. “I wanted to be a football player, but when they arrested my father, my mother, and both my brothers, I wanted to become a lawyer so I can defend them. “My dad has been in jail nine times, my mom has been arrested five times, my older brother two times, and my younger brother has been in jail more than one time.” Ahed has also been injured several times in clashes with Israeli soldiers and was even shot in the leg last year with a rubber-coated steel bullet. “I go to bed each night fearing I may never see another day. The thing that Israeli occupation does to us is it gives us the strength to fight and resist. When you see someone you love getting killed in front of your eyes, it gives you more strength to resist.” Muhammed Nawajah, who hails from the village of Sussiya in the South Hebron Hills, says most days he is unable to go to school because of the military occupation. “While going to school they start chasing us and making us scared. They don't want us to go to school and educate ourselves because we are the next generation that could make Palestine free,” he says. He and his family live in a tent in Sussiya after Israeli soldiers demolished their entire village. “Sometimes the rain gets so bad it blows our tent away and we have to sleep out in the cold. "When it rains the water seeps through and wets the few possessions we have.” Nawajah dreams of becoming an English translator. “English is the language of the world. I want to learn it properly so that I can tell the whole world how we are suffering." The three Palestinian activists tell how they have drawn great strength from South Africa's struggle for freedom. “I think SA is one of the best countries that has given me hope, because South Africans lived the life we live in,” remarks Janna. “After I learnt about South Africa's history and how the country was freed, it gives me great hope that one day Palestine will be free too.” The Saturday Star