Nombuso Mqushulu had taken her 19-year-old sister Phamela Dlanana’s twin boys Akhululwe and Anothando Mqushulu into her care following the death of their father as the teen still attended school in the Eastern Cape. “Our mother could not take on the responsibility as the babies were premature at birth but doing much better, only becoming ill last week. The doctor at the clinic said the babies were okay, only Anothando was looking much better but when I checked on Sunday he did not wake up,” Mqushulu said. Akhululwe was attended to at False Bay Hospital in its emergency centre. He was diagnosed with a lower respiratory tract infection and is in a stable condition, according to the Health Department. Mqushulu said by the time an ambulance arrived at their home in the Z section, it was already too late. Mqushulu said at nights it became “unbearably cold” and that her other sister’s child had also contracted a disease and was receiving treatment at the community clinic. Community leader Dumisani Nhlapo said women were afraid to use the toilets at night and threw their sewage into the canal, where their children often played and contracted diseases. Nhlapo said the community would work with the City to solve the issues of wetlands and toilets, as they wanted to improve the lives of their residents. Health spokesperson Monique Johnstone said the surviving twin was attended to at False Bay Hospital in its emergency centre. “The infant was diagnosed with a lower respiratory tract infection and is in a stable 
condition. "The other twin passed away at home and the department cannot provide feedback as further investigations would have to be managed by the police,” said Johnstone. Mayco member for Informal Settlements, Water and Waste Services; and Energy, Xanthea Limberg said the City extended its condolences to the Mqushulu family. She said they were doing their best to improve conditions for wetlands residents spending about  R1million since March, on continued cleaning of the stormwater canals daily.