This Mandela Day, Independent Media is following in the footsteps of the iconic late South African president and celebrating the idea that each one of us has the power to transform the world. Remembering that Mandela fought for justice for 67 years, the Independent group is asking advertisers, suppliers, clients and corporates to purchase 67 copies of the Cape Times, Cape Argus or Weekend Argus, enabling it to donate 50% of the purchase price to one of five organisations in need. When the copies are purchased, R328.30, R268 or R670 for the respective titles will be donated to one of the organisations identified. The buyer decides which organisation to support. These are the Saartjie Baartman Centre for Women and Children; Nazareth House; Khulisa Social Solutions; Margaret’s House; and PDSA Animal Shelter. The Saartjie Baartman Centre for Women and Children assists women and children survivors of abuse. It currently offers support to 120 women and children. Gabriella (not her real name) is one of many success stories and embodies strength, courage and perseverance. She has survived an abusive marriage and an eight-year drug addiction to end up as one of the centre’s leading role models. She said when she was using drugs she neglected her daughter, now aged 7. A turning point in her life came when her ex-husband kicked her five-month-pregnant belly, sending her to hospital suffering severe blood loss. “I was so lost and my daughter was never a priority. Since I’ve walked through these doors (of the Saartjie Baartman Centre) my life has changed. I am able to be there for my daughter. I am able to be a mother. "Over the last two years I have realised so much about myself. I am strong. I am independent. I am a go-getter. I never considered myself to be any of these in the past. I have realised it lately. Most touching to me is that my daughter also sees it. I am there for her and she feels it, I know. I am her role model, and I will never go back to what I used to be,” Gabriella said. The centre’s financial manager, Shumeeze Johaardien, said about R500 000 a month was needed to run the centre, and they always struggled to find it. Social development pays 40% of their budget, but they always need more money for baby food, clothing and to pay their electricity bill of R68 000 a month. Margaret’s House is a registered non-profit residential centre in Lansdowne, which was established in 1987 by five Anglican churches. It currently accommodates 16 boys, aged 5 to 18, who were either abandoned or abused, and recommended by courts. Administrator Melany Harris said passion for helping those in need was the reason the facility had made it to its 30th birthday. “We rely a lot on donations and need more funding to keep our programmes running,” Harris said. Cape Times editor Aneez Salie said the world needs to keep on fulfilling Madiba’s legacy. “Even though Madiba passed away four years ago, he is still very fresh in our minds. With that comes the realisation that we have an enormous debt to pay. "Long before he passed on, he said that the future was now in our hands. The Cape Times is very privileged and honoured to be able to make this small contribution to creating a better life in Madiba’s name,” Salie said. To join this initiative, call 0215077635 or e-mail colin.hendricks@inl.co.za.  francesca.villette@inl.co.za 