Metrorail said the move was in response to threats in operating areas, where the emergency services are prevented from attending to life-threatening situations. Metrorail train drive Pieter Botha was shot dead during a robbery at Netreg station last year. A  passenger was injured after being thrown out of a fast-moving train near Heideveld station last year. Metrorail spokesperson Riana Scott said the parastatal estimated that it would spend about R800 000 a month on security. However, Scott said the use of armed security guards would not serve as a “sustainable solution”. “The drivers have responded positively to the intervention. We are dismayed that Prasa employees have joined the ranks of service providers that are under threat,” Scott said. Many commuters have expressed their concerns about the delays of the train services and torched two trains at Cape Town station. Metrorail has also suffered a number of setbacks owing to cable theft. Scott called on all communities to work with the police and other law- enforcement agencies to report crimes. “We continue to work closely with the SAPS and in particular the Rapid Rail Response Unit to secure commuters, employees and rail infrastructure. We encourage communities to be active citizens with a social conscience and provide information to police so criminals can be incarcerated,” said Scott. A reward is offered to anyone who provides information after a suspect has been convicted, said Scott. She said that all information would be treated confidentiality. Commuter watchdog  the Public Transport Voice (PTV)  has welcomed  the intervention. However PTV spokesperson Dalton Ndongeni said there should be a balance in protecting commuters and their employees. The organisation has expressed deep concern about  lack of  communication at some stations and public announcement systems at stations that were not reliable. He said they were still waiting for a response from Metrorail regional manager Richard Walker about their concerns over lack of security at Nolungile train station in Khayelitsha. Ndongeni identified the station as one of the crime hot spots as nothing had been done to improve the situation at the station.