Do you appreciate at all, Sirs, that these so-called white capitalists you so despise may have worked for what they gained - unlike certain other sectors of the South African population who destroy and burn? Do you appreciate at all that it is this self-same minority grouping which comprises a mere 8% of the population that contributes 91% to the South African fiscus by way of taxes? Are you on top of the fact that this grouping you chose to label with such disdain is the only minority group in existence which is wilfully being discriminated against in every sphere of human endeavour, including unfair labour practices (BEE), sport (quotas), culture, language etc? By your irresponsible, prejudiced and reckless action you have incited opportunistic groupings such as Black First Land First not only to occupy “white” land but to hound journalists - both black and white - who dare to expose corrupt politicians, state capture and atrocities committed against farmers.  It is quite unbecoming for a prestigious institution such as Bell Pottinger to have stooped so low. You have displayed a shocking insensitivity towards South Africa and its people. The damage you have caused is incalculable. You have tarnished your own good name by getting into bed with a pathological criminal and his son. So the question is what to do next?  The best I can suggest to redeem your damaged reputation is a public apology to the people of South Africa on all TV stations and in all national newspapers. In tandem with this, you should publicly disassociate yourselves from Jacob Zuma, his son, the Gupta family and the ruling ANC party. I think you owe the people of South Africa at least this much - or this little - considering the amount of harm you’ve caused. I think I know and understand South Africa better than you do, Sirs. Therefore, in future, before you indulge in any further short-sighted campaigns, you could do worse than consult me. I will point out the pitfalls and shortcomings of planned future campaigns to you and save you further embarrassment - and I won’t charge you 100 000 pounds sterling - your monthly fee for gross disinformation and stoking the fires of racial bigotry and hatred. Pierre Francois Massyn Suiderstrand