Water usage has shot up to 643 million litres a day. This is 143 million litres above the city’s target of 500 million litres of collective water use a day. Mayco member for water and waste services Xanthea Limberg said dam storage levels are at 27.4%, but usable water is only at about 17.4%. This time last year dam storage levels were at 47.6%, with usable water at standing at 37.6%. “Approximately 64.5% of our water is used by users in formal houses, flats and complexes. High-use properties are currently being visited by the City’s Water Inspectorate. Under the Level 4b directive, failure to justify high use will result in the city restricting water supply. The city’s enforcement operations also continue,” said Limberg. Between May 28 and July 2, the city’s water inspectorate and other law enforcement agencies have processed a total of 5887 complaints, enquiries, contraventions and the revocation of special exemptions related to levels 4 and 4b water restrictions. “Our latest consumption levels are extremely worrying as many people believe that they can go back to normal behaviour due to recent rains. These recent rains are not nearly enough as we are still in a drought crisis. "The drought conditions are the new normal for Cape Town as a water-scarce region. To adapt to the New Normal, we have to change our behaviour drastically to save water while we still have water to be saved,” she said. The lower-than-average rainfall, coupled with unacceptably high consumption, will hurt attempts to build up reserves for a harsh 2017/18 summer, she added. The city has appealed to all water users to use less than 87 litres of water per person per day in total, irrespective of whether they are at home, work or elsewhere." “Water users who are not adhering to the restrictions are playing with our collective future. We must save water while we still have it. We simply must do more to use water more sparingly. "We are reminding those households who fail to reduce consumption that the start of the process that could restrict supply is firmly under way,” she said.