The man allegedly stabbed the boy in a Goodwood Park on Wednesday afternoon. National Prosecuting Authority spokesperson Eric Ntabazalila said the 31-year-old man was expected in court yesterday, but the matter had been rolled over for a Legal Aid lawyer to come on board. Ntabazalila said the boy was stabbed while he and a group of friends were playing soccer. “It is reported that a group of young boys were playing soccer, and the victim was a goalkeeper. “The accused was seen speaking to the victim before he started stabbing him. “He then ran away. He was identified by friends of the victim, who pointed him out as he was running away,” Ntabazalila confirmed. Police spokesperson Andre Traut confirmed the boy had been playing with his friends in Paarl Street when he was stabbed and robbed of his 
cellphone after 1pm on Wednesday. It is reported that the man asked the victim his name before tackling him and stabbing him. The boy has been admitted to hospital and is scheduled for an operation after the tendons in his hand were severely damaged. The man used an unidentified sharp object to stab him. Goodwood ward councillor Cecile van Rensburg said she was saddened by the incident. “At this point in time there are no clear answers, although it seems that the injured youngster and his friends were playing when approached, and the attack followed,” Van Rensburg said. She confirmed the boy was still in hospital recuperating. “The fact that the victim is a young child is indeed a concern as our children should be safe to play and enjoy the outdoors. “I trust that he will recover fully and that he, as well as his friends who were with him when the incident happened, will be able to work through the trauma,” Van Rensburg said. “I trust that the police, and especially the detectives, will do what is needed to investigate the incident so that justice prevails. I have full confidence in the Goodwood detective branch to do so,” she said. Goodwood CPF spokesperson Nazeem Israel said the incident had shocked the community. “We are quite shocked by the incident, particularly because Goodwood precinct does not have such incidents. “We do have crime, but never of such a severe nature. “From the CPF’s side we are increasing our patrols in the area,” Israel said.