“We are now getting used to it. It is unfortunate in my view, because when the constitution has given us certain duties, it has actually said we have a right to decide our internal arrangements and we, again and again, take things out, (things) which belong to our internal arrangements, we take them to court, it is so unnecessary,” Mbete told journalists at the ANC’s 5th national policy conference in Johannesburg. “It is unnecessary energy and resources that are being used in that exercise. ‘‘However, people have a democratic right to do it and they do it nonetheless. We hope they will see sense one of these days.” Last month, the Constitutional Court  ruled that the question of whether a motion of no-confidence vote in President Jacob Zuma should be held via secret ballot was fully in Mbete’s hands as Speaker. The application to the Constitutional Court came from the UDM, prompted by Zuma’s controversial removal of Pravin Gordhan as finance minister and his deputy, Mcebisi Jonas. The proposed vote of no confidence is one of many attempts by opposition parties and civic organisations to remove Zuma from office. Mbete argued that she was under no obligation to set a secret vote and that such decision was up to the National Assembly members - an argument rejected by the Constitutional Court judges. Opposition parties such as the ACDP, African People’s Convention (APC),  Cope, DA, the EFF and the IFP supported the application. Justice Mogoeng ordered that Mbete and Zuma pay the legal costs of the UDM, EFF, DA, IFP and Cope. Commenting on a large gallery of bronze, full-size statues of local and international Struggle icons displayed at the NPC venue, the Nasrec Expo Centre, Mbete said the heroes were a fitting reminder of the long journey travelled in the struggle for the emancipation of South African people. Asked whether the Struggle icons displayed, including Nelson Mandela, Walter Sisulu, Samora Machel and Chris Hani, would be disappointed with the current day ANC, Mbete responded: “Not so much, because over the ages the ANC has faced, and dealt with, various challenges of those times, so the ANC right now is facing certain specific challenges that depict the reality of today. “The ANC now, 105 years later, is faced with a different reality. “We went to exile, led by Oliver Tambo for almost 30 years, we are now back and have been in office for about 20-odd years, and we are in a different space. ‘‘We have learnt more things about governance. “There will still be more challenges going forward and we are up to it,” said Mbete.