Health MEC Gwen Ramokgopa yesterday announced the end of the four-week protest  in which forensic pathology assistants refused to conduct post-mortems. The backlog caused by the strike resulted in Roodepoort having 20 bodies, Joburg 80 and Germiston 72. Ramokgopa said: “With the officers back at work, we are confident that over a period of three days these backlogs would have been dealt with”. The MEC’s announcement was met half-heartedly by some workers who had been on strike. A  forensic pathology officer, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said that workers were unhappy about the manner in which their grievances were resolved. “The way the MEC of health resolved this issue is not according to the way we expected them to deal with our grievances,” said the forensic assistant. The assistant pathologist said they had only returned to work because they were threatened. “They sent out letters to us, saying that they will be dismissing us if we don’t go back to work. “We are back at work like normal but we have a lot of bodies that need to be attended to. “Yesterday afternoon, when I knocked off, we attended to about 70 bodies,” the forensic pathology officer said. Another officer, who also requested anonymity, said she was not happy with the MEC’s announcement because the office did not deal with the issue head on. He further expressed his disappointment with his union. “The union stood us up, they decided for us and didn’t ask what we thought about it,” he added. National Education Health and Allied Workers Union (Nehawu) national spokesperson Khaya Xaba said they will hold a media briefing today. Ramokgopa said that she wished to meet all parties involved in the mortuary strike to iron out any remaining issues. Ramokgopa plans to meet the managers of the facilities, Department of Health managers and forensic pathology officers (FPOs), within the next 10 days. The MEC was relieved the strike was over and that all staff had returned to work. “We are pleased to announce that 100% of forensic pathology officers returned to their work station since Wednesday morning,” she said in a statement. She further confirmed that the department checked with all the facilities to ensure that all staff members went to work yesterday.