Inspector-General of Intelligence Setlhomamaru Dintwe has promised to probe the complaint lodged by the SACP against President Jacob Zuma on the so-called intelligence report that led to the axing of Pravin Gordhan as finance minister. This followed confirmation by SACP first deputy general secretary Solly Mapaila that he had filed an affidavit with Dintwe against Zuma. The SACP was left infuriated that Zuma had denied in court papers an intelligence report was used to justify the sacking of Gordhan and the reshuffling of his cabinet in March. Legal adviser to Dintwe, advocate Jay Govender., confirmed yesterday they would probe the complaint by the SACP. However, she would not commit to deadlines. “The inspector-general confirms that he is currently investigating a complaint lodged by the SACP concerning the so-called intelligence report,” said Govender. “The investigation is still ongoing and as a result there is no report as yet. He will communicate duly once a report has been issued,” she said. Zuma has been under fire in recent times over state capture and leaked emails. The SACP has decided to contest elections on its own in future. However, it would have a special conference next year after the ANC’s elective conference in December to decide on the way forward. The SACP also said it would not be in opposition to the ANC when it contests the elections. The party has prevented Zuma from addressing its members after its call for him to resign. This was the same position taken by Cosatu a few months ago after Zuma was booed and prevented from addressing the May Day rally in Mangaung. Zuma was taken to court by the opposition on his cabinet reshuffle. But in the court papers, he has not mentioned the issue of the intelligence report and said the opposition must produce it. Mapaila said they believe Zuma was not telling them the truth on this report and the SACP has decided to complain to the inspector-general of intelligence. Dintwe assumed his job a few months ago after he was recommended by Parliament  in November and Zuma approved his appointment in March. The position had been vacant for some time after the term of office of his predecessor, advocate Faith Radebe, came to an end. She was appointed South Africa’s ambassador to Sweden in September 2015 after she left the position of inspector-general in March of that year. The wrangle among parties in Parliament over the position caused the post to be vacant for two years until all parties agreed on Dintwe.