 I do not worry about what I will do to him. He thought of nothing when taking her life. These were the words of Ocean View father Melvin Robyn following the arrest of a suspect in connection with the murder of his 14-year-old daughter, Cameron Britz. Cameron s mutilated body was found in the bushes along Slangkop Road near the Ocean View police station on Sunday night. The suspect will appear in court on a murder and rape charge. According to Cameron's family, he handed himself in to the police. Robyn and the suspect s father are cousins. Cameron was a Grade 8 pupil and a netball star for a local club, 7 Stars United. Yesterday, Robyn broke down as he detailed the search and subsequent discovery of his daughter s body. Robyn s mother was at the Salt River mortuary when the Cape Times visited the area. Robyn said: We searched the whole night and nothing came out of it. I only heard the next morning of what had happened. My cousin s son took Cameron from the fire under the pretext that I was calling her. I did not call her because I did not know she was at the fire. It is hard to explain the way I feel. If I get him I don t know what I am going to do with him. They must keep him inside. I cannot imagine how she must have felt in that moment. Cameron s murder comes as the country grapples with violent crime against women and children. Earlier this week, Human Settlements Minister Lindiwe Sisulu urged the ANC policy conference to propose tough sentences for people involved in the rape and killing of women and children.Angry residents who had been leading the search for Cameron said the community was still in shock as it was the first time such an incident had happened in their area. Robyn said Cameron was a happy child who loved school and singing. She had a lot to live for. I always read about these things, but you never know when it is coming or if is going to happen to you, he said. Ocean View resident Mishka Meyer said: The people that found her were more shocked because it was their friend who was lying there. She was like a sister to my children. My children could not sleep. They were scared. &quot;She was only 14. Police Ministry spokesperson Vuyo Mhaga said: The SAPS continues to prioritise crimes against women and children. It is on that basis that local police worked around the clock and apprehended a 19-year-old suspect. The suspect is the last person the deceased was seen with. 