The area shut down after a group of residents went on the rampage and torched houses belonging to community leaders in the area. Betana’s high school teacher, Ellen Fedele, offered the reward in a letter to the Cape Times. She said: “I learned of the violent death of one of these children in Imizamo Yethu on Friday - my worst fear come to life: One of my children losing his life. My grief quickly turned to anger - he will not be just another statistic, he will not be just another case file number. "He has  died in vain, as all innocents do. Caught in crossfire, this intelligent young man, charming but sweet, polite and always happy, was dead. “I need to make society remember this boy. His killer needs to be brought to justice though this will never bring the boy back - to this end, I am offering a R10 000 reward for information that leads to the arrest and conviction of the person/s who cut this life short,” she said. Betena’s heartbroken mother, Agnes Betana, told the Cape Times on Sunday night the family was grateful that Fedele had offered the reward as this would help in making arrests. “I have no words to express my appreciation. Ellen has always been with us and now is doing this for us..” She said her son was at a friend’s house when he heard a noise. He went outside and was shot. “It is hard to come to terms with it. He was such a promising child. He was doing his first year at UWC and we expected a lot from him,” she said. Last night community leaders were locked in a tense meeting with Police Minister Fikile Mbalula to try to resolve the housing dispute. Betana was the second person to die during the protest. Earlier this month, a probe was launched into the death of Imizamo Yethu resident Songezo Ndude, 26, who sustained head injuries during clashes between police and residents. On Sunday night Kenny Tokwe, whose property was torched, said the violence was prompted by disagreement over the process of re-blocking the Imizamo Yethu informal settlement. Meanwhile Cape Town mayor Patricia de Lille  said two community leaders came to an agreement whereby one group was updated about the super-blocking project and they agreed to engage the community to put an end to the violence so the project could continue. “The City welcomes the peace deal ... We are hopeful that the peace will hold so that we can continue with the project,” she said. Cape Times