“You will find an issue that has arisen in the plenary as a contentious issue Gauteng has proposed that we decriminalise sex workers and they put it across as a proposal and a recommendation until we found that the plenary was not too happy with that proposal,” Sisulu told a media briefing at the NPC in Johannesburg. “In the discussion, we had indicated that before we have something placed before conference, it should have gone through the necessary discussions but this one was sprung on us without going through the necessary consultation. So we did expect that we would have a fallout with the plenary.” Sisulu, who is also minister of human settlements, said Gauteng was of the view that South Africa was “unduly harsh on people trying to make a living” and it should be men’s involvement in paid-for sex which must be penalised. “In Gauteng’s perspective, this (sex work) is an executive pleasure so their proposal is to turn it around so that we criminalise the men,” said Sisulu. Sisulu said her committee expressed deep concern over what it termed the breakdown of the social fabric in South Africa. “We believe that government has done exceedingly well in the delivery of services in this sector, however we are very concerned about the breakdown of our social fabric as a society. This is one area which remains stubbornly backward in the way we define it and we are very concerned about that,” said Sisulu. "We would like all branches of the ANC to be effective agents of change as leaders in our community. We would like to see the ANC at the forefront of radical social transformation and our agenda to achieve social cohesion and nation building. "To this end, we would like to urge all ANC members to be exemplary in their conduct and make sure that at all times they reflect the ANC ideology and the the fact that we ANC members are leaders of society,” said Sisulu. The delegates also recommended that South Africa cate-
gorise hate crimes as a priority. “In this case we would be in difficulty because we have to first confront the fact that we have not yet got beyond dealing with the issue of racism. "We have got to legislate against racism, got to make sure we understand it in all its finer and newest manifestations," Sisulu said.