Justice and Correctional Services officials were yesterday scratching their heads about the identity of the person who captured Sunday s brawl between inmates and warders at Kgosi Mampuru II Correctional Centre in Pretoria on a cellphone. Initial reports stated the footage was taken by an inmate, but departmental spokesperson Logan Maistry refused to speculate, saying this would form part of an ongoing investigation. Inmates are prohibited from having cellphones. If it is an offender that took the footage, his or her privileges will be taken away and they can be summoned to appear in court. If it is an official, the culprit could face a disciplinary process or be dismissed, he said. The footage taken at Kgosi Mampuru, declared the country s best correctional facility just last week by Parliament s portfolio committee on justice and correctional service, has been doing the rounds online since the weekend.It captured the events of Sunday during which inmates attacked warders using makeshift weapons. They cited parole delays for their unhappiness.According to officials, inmates refused to go into their cells and, besides parole issues, also complained about poor food and overcrowding. The warders used dogs electric shields and pepper spray to contain the situation. Correctional Services specialised units were called in to help quash the riot.Maistry said: We will continue to remain vigilant and keep our guard up. Our officials are well trained to deal with such incidents by using the required amount of force. He added there was no need for concern. As far as we know riots only occurred at Kgosi Mampuru, he said.Maistry said several measures had already been implemented to deal with complaints. We are dealing with the backlog and it is receiving priority attention, he said.As part of assessing offenders serving life sentences, professional reports and recommendations on risk and rehabilitation were part of the process. Unfortunately, the combined lack of reports from social workers and psychologists as well as outstanding restorative justice interventions were cited as the main reasons why submission of profiles to Parole Boards are delayed, said Maistry.He said the department had embarked on a project to fill vacancies for psychologists and social workers; and about half of them were already filled. In certain circumstances, offenders were transferred to centres where services by psychologists and social workers were available.