Cape Town - The family and teachers of six-year-old Luciano ‘Miertjie’ Demas, who drowned in a pit at a construction site, says his tragic death could have been avoided. They now blame Afriline Civils for not cordoning off the construction site on Kramat Road, Macassar, correctly. Luciano drowned last week Monday while he and his friends were playing on the sand hills of the construction site, run by Afriline Civils, a civil engineering company based in Stikland. The child slid down a dune and into the water and did not come back up. The little boy could not swim and his body was retrieved from the dam three hours later. The site is about 200 metres away from his home, and according to his grandmother there used to be fencing in place but it has since been removed. “The people stole the fence and the poles and the security was almost never visible. We did not know he was going to play there or that he played there, but we would have stopped him if we knew it was open,” says grandmother Martha Demas. “Ek voel hulle is verantwoordelik vir my kleinkind se dood en hulle moet verantwoordelikheid vat (I feel that they are responsible for my grandson's death.). Our pastor spoke to the people and brought them here last Tuesday. “They said they will pay for everything [funeral], but nothing has been done yet. I am waiting for the pastor.” Miertjie attended the Cotlands Macassar Playgroup, who said the bubbly boy will be sorely missed. Marketing Manager for Cotlands’ national office, Anel Combrink says they believe Luciano’s death could have been avoided. “We strive to keep our children safe and would like to make a call to the community members to watch out for all children to make sure they are safe from harm. This is a tragedy that could have been avoided if the area had been properly cordoned off so that children did not have access to the site,” says Combrink. She says Luciano’s teacher and classmates were shocked by his untimely death and has been left deeply saddened. “Luciano’s early learning facilitator at our Cotlands Macassar Playgroup says he was a delightful, outgoing child that really enjoyed the play sessions. He was a quick learner and was always the last to leave at the end of the group,” says Combrink. Granny Martha says Luciano will be laid to rest on Saturday. Attorney Stephan van der Meer, acting on behalf of Afriline Civils, on Monday told Daily Voice his client denies all allegations of negligence. “Our client’s directors, and in particular Ms Delaine Fortuin, have personally given their condolences to the family for the tragic death of their son, Luciano," said Van der Meer. “Given the fact that the matter is under investigation and out of respect for the family, our client will refrain from commenting in the media, suffice to say that our client denies any act of wrongdoing or negligence.” Daily Voice