A 61-year-old woman has been found dead in her room after a fire at Huis Lizelle Retirement home in Wellington. Elsa Dippenaar succumbed before firefighters could extinguish the blaze which destroyed her room.Sections of the home had to be evacuated even though Dippenaar s residence was the only room damaged.Resident Retha Fourie said she was visiting another resident down the hall from Dippenaar when she noticed a smell like burning toast. I walked out of the room I cannot describe the smell and then I heard a scream. When I turned the corner, there was so much smoke. Her (Elsa s) door was locked and I started to wake the other residents before pressing the panic button I called the fire department, said Fourie.Dippenaar was a quiet, friendly person, she said. They both had been living at the home for three years.A private and very independent person, Dippenaar was approachable, said Fourie.Dippenaar was a smoker, but the reason for the fire is yet to be determined.The head of the home, Jurine Willemse, 69, said a section of the home had to be evacuated as the police investigated the source of the fire. The area also has some damage and after the fire was put out, we were told our residents should not stay there for health reasons. Elsa was a divorcee and had no children. Sadly, her only remaining sibling were two sisters, one of whom lives in East London and the other in Paarl but who underwent heart surgery last week, said Willemse.She said there were 33 people housed at the retirement home, and those from the affected section were waiting for family members to collect them.A pastor had undertaken the task of contacting the family of Dippenaar, as they were concerned about what the news would do to her sister recovering in hospital.Drakenstein deputy fire chief Darren Pekeur confirmed that no other residents were injured in the fire. For health and safety reasons we have requested that residents vacate the area. Police are investigating the circumstances surrounding the fire, said Pekeur.Police spokesperson Andre Traut confirmed that a death inquest docket was under investigation and the cause of the fire had not yet been determined.