His widow Graça Machel is considering legal action against the author, Dr Vejay Ramlakan, or the publisher, Penguin Random House South Africa, for the publication of Mandela’s Last Years without her consent. But Ramlakan says Mandela family members had given him the go-ahead. Contacted by the Cape Times sister paper the Daily News yesterday for clarity on who in the family had given their blessing for the book, Ramlakan said the statement released by his publisher had all that “we wanted to say on this matter”. “I don’t want to address the issues you are questioning me about. I’m suggesting that you, as a journalist, do your research and interview other members of the family,” he said. Machel is supported by Madiba’s grandchildren, Mandla and Ndileka on seeking legal opinion and the views of the executors of Mandela’s estate. In a statement released by her foundation on Friday, Machel “condemned” the book. “It is an affront to and an assault on the trust and dignity of my late husband, president Nelson Mandela. “It breaches the doctor-patient relationship of confidentiality and I am taking legal advice on whether to institute legal proceedings against the author and its publisher,” she said. Ramlakan retired from the military in 2015 and was the head of Mandela’s medical team until the latter’s death. In the book, he reportedly detailed Madiba’s admission to the Medical Heart Hospital in June to the day he drew his last breath with former wife Madikizela-Mandela at his bedside. Mandla Mandela posted on social media: “We want to assure mamu Nosizwe (Graça Machel) that she is not alone in taking offence at the apparent violation of Nkosi Dalibhunga’s privacy. We believe that the sentiments she has expressed find echoes in the hearts of all who loved and revered the Father of Our Nation”. Asked who in the family could have given Ramlakan consent, Ndileka Mandela said she was battling to figure out who the culprit could be as she was shocked when she heard about the book. “If it is proven that a family member is indeed behind this, then I’d take it up with that family member to establish what the motive behind this was,” she said.