Pressident Jacob Zuma s staunch supporters have seemingly shunned his power-sharing proposal that could see the losing candidate become deputy president. ANC heavyweight and Human Settlements Minister Lindiwe Sisulu is also doubtful over the suggestion that could result in either Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma or Cyril Ramaphosa - the front runners in the party s succession race - deputising for the winning candidate.Sharp divisions have also emerged on whether the ANC should adopt the term white monopoly capital or monopoly capital , despite Zuma s assertions yesterday that the party had resolved that monopoly capital needed to be economically transformed to redistribute wealth.It was Zuma s pronouncement in his closing speech of the ANC s five-day policy conference yesterday that the party had agreed on a leadership compromise which appeared to raise uneasiness. Zuma said the proposal, part of the ANC s strategy for renewal, would help get rid of factionalism. In this regard, a proposal has been made that we should all encourage lobbying practices that will allow a unifying electoral outcome, he said.When approached for comment by Independent Media, Dlamini Zuma said she supported the proposal.&nbsp; I think the president was right that we had to find a solution that unites the organisation, and that the proposal must be discussed. This is important because we stand and are strong when we are united, and weak when we are divided. When asked if she would consider serving as the deputy president if she lost the presidential race, Dlamini Zuma was non-committal.&nbsp; The conference will decide on that. I am a cadre of the organisation and will do what the organisation decides. One of Dlamini Zuma s backers, Sihle Zikalala, said the proposal for a power share was not a bad idea, but needed more detail. ANC KwaZulu-Natal secretary Super Zuma said the push for a compromise was not informed by panic, but for the unity of the party.The Umkhonto we Sizwe Military Veterans Association (MKMVA) also seemed convinced. MKMVA chairperson Kebby Maphatsoe said questions needed to be asked on how it would affect the power of branches to nominate their candidates. I also saw it that it was not warmly received. So we still need to be persuaded on this matter. I am saying on the issue we need further explanation, he said.Sisulu also sounded unconvincedby the proposal. The power-sharing thing, I am hearing that for the first time. And I think it s so unfortunate that it comes for the first time when the water has been muddied, she said.There was also discord among senior ANC members over the party s decision to adopt monopoly capital instead of white monopoly capital . Sisulu said she was in favour of the decision, however, Dlamini Zuma had a different view.She said: There s no doubt in South Africa as a whole, it is a monopoly of the white conglomerates that dominate the economy. So, I don t think that it is even an issue, but elsewhere and in general it is monopoly capital. But, in South Africa, it s all white-dominated. 