“If they choose to fire me so be it, if they choose to kill me then so be it. I am a fan of Socrates, who had the option to apologise, but he did not because he believed in the rule of law. I also believe in the rule of law,” she said yesterday. Khoza, angered ANC leaders this week when she granted media interviews on the sidelines of the national policy conference in contravention of party rules that no delegate could grant interviews unless such is approved by the communications team. ANC spokesperson Zizi Kodwa said Khoza had been “out of order” for granting the interviews in which she was critical of the ANC and its leadership. Kodwa said the matter had been referred to the conference steering committee. Khoza said she would subject herself to the disciplinary process, but warned that she would also seek to bring counter-charges against individuals she feels have brought the party into 
disrepute. In a veiled attack on Zuma, she said she did not understand why the ANC would target her when there are people who have brought the name of the organisation into disrepute. “I have never been to court accused of stealing from the public. I have never been accused of preying on the children of my friends just to satisfy my lust and sexual desires. When are we going to charge people implicated in the (Gupta) e-mails?” Khoza is seen as leading the anti-Zuma lobby within the ANC caucus having made it clear that she will not vote for an amoral leadership. This week the ANC issued a stern warning to its MPs saying anyone who voted against Zuma in the upcoming vote of no confidence may face expulsion. NEC member Fikile Mbalula likened those MPs planning on voting against Zuma to suicide bombers. Khoza said she was disturbed by Mbalula’s statement saying it negates the ANC's commitment to healing divisions. Khoza warned that the ANC was “bleeding to death” and unless it changed its ways, "is headed for a ditch”. The ANCYL has called on the ANC to take action against Khoza. ANCYL secretary Thanduxolo Sabelo said: “We have always said that she is a (nut) case. Perhaps what we need is some form of evaluation”. ANC KZN spokesperson Mdumiseni Ntuli said the leadership of the party in that province would meet with Khoza.