Andreas Wolf was denied bail at the Blue Downs Magistrate’s Court on June 21. Western Cape High Court Judge Siraj Desai said the State presented cases outlining both the likelihood that the appellant would abscond and of him being a flight risk. “I do realise that this is an extremely difficult matter that deals with offences which are heinous and unacceptable to society. However, I can only refuse bail if there are facts,” Judge Desai said. Wolf is accused of rape, sexual assault, sexual exploitation and exposing children to pornography. He allegedly penetrated an 11-year-old boy whom he coaxed to masturbate and perform acts of oral sex. Allegations emerged previously that Wolf had groomed the child to lure other children to his home, where he would have his way with them. The incidents allegedly occurred at one of Wolf’s residences in Somerset West. Wolf, a principal consultant at an Australia-based company, also holds a doctorate in sports and business administration. During his bail applications at the Blue Downs Magistrate’s Court, the State said the first alleged victim, 12 years old at the time, reported the matter last year. State Prosecutor Nathan Adriaanse said: “The victim explained he had run away from home to a farm during December 2015. While playing with a group of friends, the 11-year-old asked if they wanted to go with him to his father’s home. The 11-year-old explained that what happened at the house was a secret.” Wolf allegedly had the victims remove their clothes. The State said the victims were told to take a shower, whereafter he would have them naked on his bed and show them pornographic videos. Yesterday, the mother of two of Wolf’s alleged victims, who cannot be named as the victims are minors, said she was disappointed that Wolf was granted bail. She became suspicious after her sons were spending more time away from home. Charlotte Heynes, a proportional representation councillor in ward 16, was allowed to address Judge Desai in court after the ruling. “I am here today to support one of the mothers and she says her son, who was one of the victims, is fearing for his life. As we sat in court now she told me she would now have to get protection for him as they have received death threats.” Judge Desai said he valued the input but was “acting within the parameters of the law”. Wolf is expected in court on August 17.