The increasing levels of dumping of waste along the railway line and open spaces in Cape Town is a huge cause for concern. It is a very disappointing image which causes one to look away while commuting by train. The major dumping or dirty sections include Cape Town Station and Salt River and this picture runs along the rail line until Simon’s Town. The reader might ask the question: what is the picture in other railway lines and open spaces of Cape Town? The possible answer could be that the southern suburbs area resembles the provincial, if not a national, picture. Surprisingly, the dirty images and illegal dumping of waste occurs not far from the city centre or the Cape Town Civic Centre as its building is almost linked to the Cape Town railway station. This practice and behaviour is taking place despite the existence of the Integrated Waste Management by-law, the Environmental Health by-law and the National Environmental Management Act. Sadly, these laws are not being implemented, partly because of a lack of capacity. The other reason is the fragmented nature of the province and the country. This makes it possible for each stakeholder and sphere of government not to take responsibility, but to instead shift the blame, hence South Africa is increasingly becoming a country without service. Most services are rendered as a response to community protest and court rulings. Section 24(a)(b) of the constitution states: “Everyone has the right to an environment that is not harmful to their health or wellbeing; and to have the environment protected for the benefit of present and future generations through reasonable legislative and other measures.” Among other things this section imposes duties on the state to protect the environment. It also ensures that the environment is not harmful to people’s health and dignity. If the City of Cape Town or the South African state is caring enough, it would not let the dumping occur. It should prevent dumping through sustainable programmes because this act degrades and ultimately destroys infrastructure. It is important to understand that how the state is judged is often by the neglected dirty environment and vandalised infrastructure. Currently, the environment is left to sort out itself. Section 24 above also suggests an inter-relationship between “human dignity” and “environmental dignity”. It is wrong for the City of Cape Town or the country to pride itself as among the best cities and nations by way of slogan, yet the infrastructure of the country and the conditions of the majority of the people are deteriorating. Such a devastating picture resembles the law of the jungle, the survival of the predators, an acute subculture of grabbing the resources and leaving the surrounding communities and the infrastructure in a degrading state. The conditions created by dumping of waste have become a health hazard to humans and the environment and is offensive. These conditions are also breeding grounds for crime. The City of Cape Town, Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa and the state must provide services by cleaning up dirty spots, preventing harm to the environment, implementing by-laws and promoting community awareness to prevent dumping of waste in public areas. Chris Magobotiti Rondebosch