Only last week, the owner and sole director of Top N Nos Services, Tarryn Liederman, was advised that she would no longer be doing business with the city. This after the Treasury published a list of companies and individuals restricted from doing business with the state. The sanction imposed on Top N Nos Services by the Competition Tribunal stemmed from a complaint dating back to 2014 when it was accused of collusive trading. Top N Nos, Greystone Trading, now Pronto Kleen, and Zara Cleaning Services were accused of colluding when they submitted their tender for a cleaning contract with the Western Cape Department of Agriculture for its offices in Elsenburg, Stellenbosch. The company pleaded guilty and paid an administrative penalty of R36 935, which represented 1% of the company's turnover for the financial year, which ended on February 28, 2015. ANC Youth League regional co-ordinator Roscoe Jacobs, who is also an activist in Hout Bay, said he became aware of Top N Nos when the company won a City of Cape Town tender to clean the toilets at the local beach. He wanted to suggest to the company to use unemployed people for the cleaning jobs, but discovered that the company had run foul of the Competition Tribunal. “The City of Cape Town needs to review its supply chain management processes. This company did not declare to the city that it had been found guilty.” He said the company was still awarded a multimillion-rand cleaning contract last month despite having raised the alarm to city officials as recently as March. “What's alarming is that the alternative contractor is a company, Pronto Kleen, owned by Liederman’s mother-in-law.” She could not be reached for comment yesterday. Mayoral committee member for finance Johann van der Merwe said the city had sought a legal opinion after it was made aware of the Competition Tribunal's findings. “Furthermore, it was found that the supplier could not be excluded based on the court ruling pertaining to the company. "The company was fined and paid the fine for the transgression that they were found guilty of. "The supplier was therefore legally eligible to apply for the tender according to the laws of the country,” said Van der Merwe.