Cape Town - A Manenberg man has been hospitalised after two gunmen opened fire on a group of friends playing dominoes on Sunday. His family says Clayton Williams, 24, was shot in the back after he refused to hand over his belongings to the shooters. The incident happened just after midnight in Touwsberg Road. Relatives say they are angry and confused at the shooting as Clayton was an innocent man who was just spending time with his friends. Clayton’s brother, Elton Williams, says the 24-year-old welder is a good man who is not involved in drugs or gangs. He says the spot where the group was playing dominoes is a popular hangout for young men who want to stay out of trouble. “He and his friends were sitting there where they always play dums (dominoes) and listen to music. Then these three ouens (guys) came and tried to rob them. But they were sterkgevriet (stubborn) and didn’t want to give their stuff off,” Elton says. The brother says two of the robbers returned with guns and opened fire on the group who scattered. Clayton was hit by a bullet in his lower back and taken to Groote Schuur Hospital where it was removed. His family says he is in a stable condition. Residents living in Touwsberg Road tells the Daily Voice that they believe Junky Funkys are behind the shooting. Police spokesperson, Captain FC van Wyk, confirmed the incident and says the motive is unknown: “An attempted murder case was registered for investigation.” Clayton’s mother, Jane, says she is still in shock. “Dis shocking, ja. Hy kon dood gewees het. Ons is baie bly [hy lewe] maar ons het geskrik. (Yes, this is shocking. He could have been killed. We are glad that he survived but we had quite a shock.)” Elton, however, is angry and questions why gangsters are left to do as they please. “He should never have been in this situation. He is a good laaitie (kid) and doesn’t get involved in all this nonsense. We work together and we work hard for what we have. “Why can they just come here with guns and shoot people? I want this to stop. There was no reason for them to shoot him.” Daily Voice