A new smartphone app seeks to take the frustration out of finding available parking in the city centre. Last week, Street Parking Solutions, which manages street parking in the Cape Town CBD, unveiled its ParkFind app, which its developers say has been two years in the making, according to Street Parking Solutions owner Zunaid Loghdey. The app is available on Android and iPhone handsets.Now motorists will be able to pay for their parking through the app, or, if they prefer, to a parking marshal.Loghdey said the app was one of three in the world, and part of Cape Town s strategy to become a smart city. This was a smart-city product. We were the first city in Africa, and one of three in the world that installed vehicle-detection sensors in every parking bay. That was the first smart city product. The aim of it was to eventually introduce this parking app, says Loghdey.He said up to 40% of all congestion in any business district was due to cruising , where motorists cruised and waited for available parking spots. This technology will take you to an available spot without you having to cruise, which means it s a congestion buster and a CO2 buster It s also a massive time-saving application, said Loghdey. In 2006 I started working with vehicle-detection sensors and (the app) was the logical progression. The digitisation has allowed for these efficiencies. This is the next thing. He said the proliferation and acceptance of demand-focused smartphone applications had made taking the leap on to the new platform so much easier.Loghdey said in the process of moving over to the smartphone app none of the parking marshals, dotted across the CBD with their orange bibs, would lose their jobs. We have not cut the parking marshal out of this thing. The parking marshal is intrinsically woven into this solution. In the past, he and his company have been in the news for their labour disputes - in one instance calling in the notorious Red Ants to prevent protesting marshals from intimidating their colleagues.