This was revealed by the ANC chairperson of the economic transformation committee, Enoch Godongwana, yesterday when he addressed journalists at the 5th ANC policy conference in Nasrec, Soweto. Godongwana said the branches were directed to discuss two options, with one of them being the expropriation of land without compensation and the other with compensation. “We have handed over these two options to the branches to discuss ahead of the national elective conference in December. “Some people were of the view that any form of land reform should take place within the ambit of the law and the constitution. “Both proposals will be tabled at the conference for a final decision on the matter,” Godongwana said. Prior to the policy conference, the ANC Youth League and ANC in KwaZulu-Natal were backing Zuma on his call for the expropriation of land without compensation. According to reports, earlier this week things allegedly got heated in the commission where NEC member and former tourism minister Derek Hanekom was harangued and forced to apologise for contending that “expropriation of land without compensation is nonsense”. However, insiders said that those in favour of expropriation of land without compensation have lost their battle. The first signs of defeat were evident when Zuma abandoned his call when he officially opened the policy conference on Friday, the insiders said. In his opening remarks, Zuma steered clear from his own call. Instead, he urged ANC members to allow land redistribution “within the ambit of the law and constitution. “We believe it is possible to find radical solutions to land hunger, working within the ambit of the law and the constitution,” he said on Friday. Yesterday, Zuma reiterated his change of mind on expropriation of land without compensation when he lodged an apparent attack on the EFF for continuing to encourage people to grab land illegally. “Those who occupy land illegally should be arrested. Their acts are illegal,” he emphasised. However, Godongwana played down the defeat on the motion of expropriation of land without compensation saying the two contradicting motions were still up for discussions. “We are, however, going ahead with expropriating abandoned land especially those belonging to absentee landlords. We are also going to do an audit of land available, including that belonging to the state for land redistribution. “We also intend to use 4million hectares of agricultural land belonging to the state for redistribution and restitution,” he said.