This despite death threats to its employees, clients cancelling their contracts with the company and racial tensions stoked across the social media landscape for more than a week. On Friday, Madlala’s identity was revealed in a MiWay Insurance press statement explaining that he had apologised for the fake e-mail claiming that the insurer referred to black people as “baboons”. “The author of the social media post purported to show a racist and offensive mail written by a MiWay staff member has apologised. The company will not take legal action against Madlala. “Former MiWay client Madlala was identified in an independent forensic investigation into the incident. “After having a claim legitimately rejected by MiWay and subsequently by the Ombudsman for short-term Insurance, he used a MiWay e-mail to generate a false and defamatory mail containing racist remarks and making false allegations about MiWay’s claims handling policies,” the statement read. The company said MiWay chief executive René Otto, and head of marketing, Nthabiseng Moloi, met Madlala. They had detected no racism in his interactions with the company or its staff. “MiWay recognises that it could have done better in its communication with the client, which possibly could have contributed to Mr Madlala’s dissatisfaction. It must be noted that this did not affect the merits of the case. “Mr Madlala was given the option to make a public apology or face legal action, and today he agreed to a joint statement with MiWay, regretting his actions. “He apologised to MiWay for bringing the company into disrepute, to MiWay employees, especially the two who received hate mail and death threats as a result of his actions, and to the people of South Africa, for stoking racial tensions,” the statement continued. In his apology, Madlala said: “I apologise sincerely for my actions. I acted impulsively and without any thought to how this post would spiral out of control. I have learnt how dangerous social media can be, if misused, especially in South Africa. I also realise that I put the two MiWay employees in danger and I plan to meet them to apologise again in person.” The two employees implicated by Madlala’s e-mail have accepted his apology, according to the statement. MiWay said it would not tolerate actions that served to incite racial disharmony in the country. “Our objectives in investigating and pursuing this matter were to prove our innocence, protect the staff members who were falsely implicated, and not act in way that would further fuel the racial divide. “We accept Mr Madlala’s apology and we hope that this is a lesson to many people that you can’t get away with something like this. We trust that this matter has now been laid to rest.” But the move has proven divisive on social media with Twitter users expressing their dissatisfaction with MiWay’s choice.   “#MiWay let this Guy off lightly!!! People need to learn that you don’t f*** around like this! AND he ruined some poor woman’s life!” wrote DJ Fresh from his account. “#MiWay Mondli Madlala incited racial hatred and should be charged accordingly. An apology to the company doesn't do anything for anyone else,” said Alex Amos.    Sizwe Majavu tweeted: “#MondliMadlala your action sought to divide the nation with your fake cry of racism. #MiWay.”    Responding to a question that Madlala’s race played a factor in the company’s forgiveness: “Yes, being black earned the Mondli guy extra grace from #MiWay. More like getting a discount & propitiation (sic) for our chequered past wrongs,” posted Monghadi Mazambi.  But some users were more forgiving. “I agree with the CEO of #MiWay. They’ve cleared their name and this guy has apologised,” said Pelisa Cossie. Saturday Star