Terence Makapan was with three friends on their way to a popular drinking hole when he heard someone call him a “hotnot”. When he turned to confront a group standing nearby about who had uttered the slur, he was struck in the face,  Makapan said. He recorded the incident and posted the video of his interaction with his alleged attacker. He said he was determined to see the matter through “to the very end”. Makapan was left with a bloody nose and cracked lips. The 24-year-old said he required time to collect himself after the experience and did not wish to speak about the incident. “I have been very overwhelmed since this all happened and have been trying to get into a better head space. When someone said that word, we turned around and asked them who said it and why they said it. It becomes a little blurry because shortly after that one of them walked up to me and punched me,” said Makapan. They reported the incident to the Stellenbosh University’s security but felt the person who took their statements did so apathetically and felt they had done something wrong. In his video on Facebook after the person punched him in the face, Makapan posted: “We demanded to know who uttered the word. One of them tried to get us to just walk on but we refused. “Next thing I know, I’m being approached by one of his friends with a rock in one hand. He proceeds to punch me with his free hand.” In the post he said that when they went to the police station to report the incident, police refused to take his friend’s statement due to his behaviour and because they were allegedly “too intoxicated”. Makapan said of his assailant: “We know his first name and by the end of this day I want his surname so I can show him that he messed with the wrong HOTNOT. I am not leaving this, I will be (pressing) a criminal charge.” Makapan admitted that there was miscommunication at the police station at the time shortly after the incident, but that the officer on duty was helpful and he had returned to officially lodge a complaint against his assailant. Stellenbosch University spokesperson Martin Viljoen said they maintained a policy of zero tolerance of victimisation in any form, or to racism, classism, sexism and all other forms of discrimination. “The university will also not hesitate to act against anyone making themselves guilty in this regard. “It is thus with great concern that the university learnt of an alleged racist incident over the weekend in the town of Stellenbosch in which SU students and friends were allegedly subjected to racial slurs and being attacked. It is contrary to the values of our university,” said Viljoen. He said it was unclear whether the incident was on campus or if the attackers were students. Those affected were encouraged to lay charges  with not only the police, but also at Stellenbosch Campus Security so it can be investigated, said Viljoen. Police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana confirmed a common assault case had been opened but no one has yet  been arrested.  dominic.adriaanse@inl.co.za  Cape Times