It was a befitting tribute for Mekoa, who was laid to rest yesterday afternoon at his music academy in Putfontein, Benoni. Described as a good, faithful servant and generous man who lived a simple life, Mekoa died at the age of 72 on July 3 after a short illness. Born in Etwatwa, Benoni in 1945, Mekoa always wanted to become a professional musician, but circumstances in the apartheid era prevented him from living his dream. The late jazz great was prevented from touring outside South Africa by the apartheid government, which denied his application for a passport. But Mekoa defied all odds to pursue his passion. His perseverance saw him begin his formal music studies in 1986, when he was 41. He graduated with a degree in music from the then University of Natal and won a scholarship to pursue a master's in music at the University of Indiana in the US, while continuing to play in small bands. His determination to grow and nurture precious seedlings of local talent resulted in him becoming the oldest first-year student at Natal University’s School of Music. His burning ambition moti-
vated him to raise the status of young musicians to achieve excellence. Mekoa established and maintained the Gauteng Music Academy, a hub introducing aspiring musicians to jazz. Yesterday, world-renowned actor Mabutho "Kid" Sithole led the main service, attended by hundreds of mourners. They included actress Abigail Kubeka, Gauteng Community Safety MEC Faith Mazibuko, Ekurhuleni mayor Mzwandile Masina, legendary jazz musicians Sipho “Hotstix” Mabuse, jazz great Johannes Gwangwa, singer Ringo Madlingozi, as well as Caiphus Semenya and his wife Letta Mbulu. Mekoa’s daughters spoke fondly of their father and said he exuded happiness and joy everywhere he went. Malebo Mekoa said their father taught them to love and respect each other. Poet Don Mattera recited a poem he wrote for his beloved friend, and spoke of the country’s dire need for change. Mekoa is survived by his wife Busisiwe, six children, and nine grandchildren and great-grandchildren.