The ANC national policy conference became the battleground where deep divisions between supporters of President Jacob Zuma and his deputy, Cyril Ramaphosa, were laid bare in the run-up to the party s elective conference in December. Independent Media has established through several sources who attended the two economic transformation commissions that at times discussions degenerated into a fierce war of words between two factions aligned with the two leaders.Last night, the disagreements spilled over to the plenary as the various commissions reported back on the discussions on Strategy and Tactics. The discussions centred on what or who can be identified as the main enemy of the revolution , said one source. Most delegates felt that what was being reported at plenary was not a true reflection of what transpired and was agreed upon at commissions, said another delegate.Zuma s supporters pushed for white monopoly capital to be singled out as the primary enemy of the revolution , while Ramaphosa s have argued that monopoly capital is global and cannot be defined as white.The Zuma supporters argued that the term had always been part of the party s vocabulary and that there was no need to discard it now. Political analyst Lukhona Mnguni said a disagreement over language had started before the conference, and that this was being used by factions to test their strength. Language, therefore, started to define factions. If the conference says there is no white monopoly capital, the perception will be that the faction that has been using white monopoly capital has lost. The perception will be that they do not have enough numbers and vice versa. In the end, nine of the 11 commissions had decided the phenomenon of monopoly capital is a global one&quot;, seen as a psychological victory for Ramaphosa supporters.ANC policy guru and national executive committee member Joel Netshitenzhe said: It (monopoly capital) manifests itself differently in various parts of the globe and it would therefore not be correct to characterise ours as white monopoly capital. In the commissions, the debates over the issue were so heated some believed it was headed for a fist fight, in what was a dress rehearsal for the December conference.Disagreements also centred on how best to advance radical transformation, with the pro-Ramaphosa group arguing against what it viewed as reckless proposals that might lead to capital flight.