The City of Cape Town on Sunday welcomed the peace deal reached by two groups of Imizamo Yethu community leaders in Hout Bay. On Saturday, two groups of community leaders in Imizamo Yethu met to negotiate a peace deal to restore calm in the area so that the city’s “super-blocking” project could proceed, mayor Patricia de Lille said.
 
The two groups included a small group of community leaders who were against the super-blocking and the majority of the leaders who were in support of the project and who had been working with the city to ensure that the project could progress.
 
The two groups of leaders met along with city political leaders, city officials, and senior members of the SAPS at the Hout Bay Fire Station, she said.
 
The two community leader groups came to an agreement in which the one group was updated about the super-blocking project and they agreed to engage the community at large to put an end to the violence so that the project could continue.
 
A way forward was agreed to where three meetings would take place with the broader community on Sunday afternoon on three sites – the Dontse Yakhe site, the Disa site and the sports field in Imizamo Yethu.
 
The violence which flared up again this past week caused a delay in the super-blocking project, with contractors being pulled off site as their lives and equipment were in danger. The houses of three community leaders who are working with the city were also burnt down during the violent protests this past week, De Lille said.
 
“The group of leaders who were previously opposed to the super-blocking process have agreed to engage with the city and a series of engagements have been planned to ensure that they are updated regularly on the project’s progress as we have been doing with the community leaders who have always been on board and working with the city,” she said.
 
The community leaders further agreed that the city’s work on the super-blocking should continue on Monday.
 
“The city welcomes the peace deal that was reached between the two groups of community leaders. We are hopeful that the peace will hold so that we can continue with the project.
 
“The city reiterates its commitment to working with all leaders and residents to ensure that we make progress possible together and provide the services the residents need through the super-blocking project," De Lille said. African News Agency