But the university’s spokesperson, Luthando Thyalibongo, says the students occupying the building do not qualify for residential accommodation this year. Speaking on behalf of the students occupying the building, second-year student Namhla Sodiza said the group would occupy the building until they are provided with accommodation. Sodiza said the students occupying the building were told by the university management they are not eligible for accommodation at residences in line with the residence admission policy or must wait for availability of space when some students do not take up their placements. “We have not been given any feedback about when we will be provided with our own rooms. There is no privacy at all, we are cramped and some had to sleep on the floor. It’s painful. “Our safety is a concern because males and females share rooms. We will be writing exams soon and we cannot focus living like this,” said Sodiza. Thyalibongo said there were too many students demanding accommodation and the university can only take a certain number. Annually, according to Thyalibongo, the UWC allocates accommodation space to 3302 students. To assist students in need of accommodation, private owners are providing more than 2100 students with accommodation.  Attempts to discuss with students about leaving the building have proved fruitless. Thyalibongo said the institution approached the Central Housing Committee (CHC) and the Student Representative Council (SRC) in an effort to assist the students but to no avail. “Unfortunately, student leadership and the occupants have been unco-operative. The university is still in the process of trying to solve this illegal occupation of an office space in a manner that addresses the needs of all concerned. “It is hazardous and unacceptable for students to stay in such conditions. As in any negotiations, there are areas of disagreement which takes time to resolve. “The students occupying this space are not eligible for accommodation at a UWC residence this year. The students have the option of approaching private accommodation venues,” said Thyalibongo. He said UWC was “not immune to this national challenge”, and addressing it remains a high priority. UWC has recently acquired land and buildings geared for student accommodation in the areas surrounding campus, said  Thyalibongo. UWC has been selected to be one of six universities to participate in the Department of Higher Education and Training's feasibility study on a student housing infrastructure investment programme. The optimum scale of development, financial models and opportunities to increase affordable student accommodation will be explored.