This time, companies forming the country’s leading softdrink manufacturer, Coca-Cola Beverages South Africa (CCBSA) group, claim the forum threatened to bring it “to its knees”. Vikki Rodger, risk manager for ABI Bottling, which forms part of CCBSA, said in papers filed in the Durban High Court that forum members told them they operated “with war” and would force a nationwide shutdown of coca-Cola unless granted a meeting with ABI’s managing director. The matter first came before the courts in March, when companies including Appletiser SA, Coca-Cola Fortune, Coca-Cola Shanduka Beverages SA, Coca-Cola Canners of Southern Africa and Waveside – obtained an urgent interim order, interdicting Delangokubona and a number of its members from: * Disrupting their business and preventing trucks entering or exiting their premises. * Gathering outside or entering their premises. * Assaulting or intimidating their employees and contractors. * Damaging or threatening to damage their property. * Demonstrating or gathering closer than 500m from their premises. The order was this week made final. According to Rodger’s papers, Delangokubona railroaded engagements the group was having with its truck drivers. “(ABI) has an ‘owner/driver’ BEE programme,” Rodger said. “To this end, as a replacement for (ABI) distributing their products themselves, it engaged ‘drivers’ to own and operate their own trucks to distribute their product as the secondary distribution system”. Rodger said that in February some drivers raised issues about their rates and routes as well as with certain staff members. She said ABI was engaging with them. But in March, the logistics service manager of the truck drivers, Thabo Ledwaba, had a call from the forum’s treasurer, who claimed to represent some drivers and said he wanted to discuss their grievances. Days later, forum members met with Ledwaba and Rodger and made several demands. “Ledwaba and I made it clear that (ABI) would only engage with (drivers) directly on this issue,” Rodger said. “(The forum members) reacted very aggressively and threatened the entire CCBSA.” Later that month, Ledwaba flew to Durban to meet with drivers. “It must have come to the attention of (the forum members) that Ledwaba was in Durban; an attempt was made to contact him at 12.32am,” Rodger said. When Ledwaba arrived at the Phoenix site for the scheduled meeting with the drivers, he was met by forum members who allegedly made various threats, including to “burn the property”. During the course of the morning, they amassed a crowd and allegedly threatened to harm employees and blocked trucks from coming in or going out. Rodger said their employees and contractors refused to work under the circumstances and ABI was forced to shut down operations for the day. They laid criminal charges against the forum and its members, she said, but the police needed a court order to assist them. The application went unopposed by Delangokubona. The Mercury made several attempts to phone forum president Sibusiso Trueman Mnyandu for comment yesterday afternoon, but was not successful in reaching him at the time of publishing. The Mercury