Dlamini came under fire for attending Zuma’s 75th birthday party, which was boycotted by some elements in the alliance as one of the signs of unhappiness with the president’s leadership. Independent Media has established that in his opening address to the meeting of the federation’s executive on Monday, Dlamini apologised for attending the celebrations. The National Union of Mineworkers, among other affiliate, led the charge in defending him, arguing it was his right to attend Zuma’s party as a national executive committee member of the ANC. Cosatu has taken a decision to dump Zuma and is actively campaigning for Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa to succeed him as party leader in December. Yesterday, the federation went a step further, announcing that Zuma was officially not allowed to address any of Cosatu’s meetings. In a move that could be interpreted as a sign of Zuma’s waning power over his allies and the unions, Dlamini apologised even though the matter was not on the agenda. NUM general secretary David Sipunzi confirmed Dlamini’s apology. “The matter came up when he was opening the meeting on Monday. “Some affiliates felt aggrieved to have seen him attend the birthday celebrations, but he manned up and apologised for it,” he said. Sipunzi said Dlamini would not face any repercussions. “There is no need for him to be crucified, because he knew he was wrong and we therefore cannot punish him after he came out and apologised.” Dlamini’s detractors wanted to use his attendance of Zuma’s party as one of the reasons to oust him. The SA Democratic Teachers Union (Sadtu) meanwhile maintained that despite his apology, Dlamini’s presence at Zuma’s party was not on the agenda and was therefore not up for discussion. “There were three things that were discussed and that was not one of them ,” Sadtu general secretary Mugwena Maluleke said. Cosatu and the SACP, which played a crucial role in Zuma’s journey to the Union Buildings, were now creating speaking platforms for Ramaphosa. Cosatu general secretary Bheki Ntshalintshali explained why the federation and its unions did not want Zuma to speak at their events. On Monday, Cosatu will commence with its important mid-term policy meeting. “The special CEC (central executive committee) meeting resolved that, in respect of the mandate from the workers and in line with the CEC resolution for him to step down, Zuma will no longer be welcome to address Cosatu,” said Ntshalintshali. “The one-day special CEC meeting agreed with the position of the workers that the decision to allow comrade Jacob Zuma was not consistent with our position that we no longer trusted and supported his leadership,” said Ntshalintshali. “The meeting resolved that going forward, in respect of the workers’ mandate and in line with resolution of the CEC that he step down, Zuma will no longer be welcome to address Cosatu activities. “ Ntshalintshali said they would communicate their decision to the ANC and its implications for the tripartite alliance.