Speaking after a plaque had been unveiled and a ribbon cut at a ceremonial programme of song, dance and speeches celebrating the centre’s upgrading at its launch yesterday, principal Zukiswa Jafta praised Rotary Club of Claremont and the Lewis Group for sponsoring the refurbishing. “Rotary and the Lewis Group did an amazing job. When I see this (refurbished) building it is like a dream come true, because I know where I come from - it was a rotten building,” she said. Recalling Educare's founding in Philippi’s Brown’s Farm informal settlement in 1984, with six teachers and 80 children (it was moved to a rundown prefab building in 1992), Jafta said the brick-building refurbishing started in November and was completed in January. “In February we started operating in the new building. I’m very happy today and I want to thank Rotary and Lewis Group, because (the quality of) our Educare is like white schools,” she said. Before Rotary’s Injongo Project and Lewis Group had stepped in to help last year, the centre had been on the brink of closing because of its unsafe structure. Injongo Project manager Pumeza Mahobe also complimented the refurbishing. “Now they have a brand new building and the skills they need to really make a difference,” she said. Over 70 people, including the sponsors and Sanco representatives, teachers, children, parents and friends, attended the launch. Rotary president Ian Robertson said the renovations were not just about structural restoration. “A key priority for the Injongo Project is to ensure that the (centre’s) teachers receive skills training as part of improving early childhood development.” Lewis Group’s Les Davies and his corporate social investment manager, Sharon Rohm, explained that their company and Rotary had invested over R14.5 million in upgrading 47 Philippi Educares by training teachers and providing resources and safety. Lewis Group chief executive Johan Enslin said: “It’s a great pleasure to partner with the Injongo Project. We are proud to make a meaningful impact in the lives of these children and the ones who will follow after them. “This Educare is the 13th one to be physically upgraded and the 47th one to benefit from the Injongo Project.”  raphael.wolf@inl.co.za 