South African Police Services (SAPS) on Monday set up a National Joint Operational and Intelligence Structure (NATJOINTS) to ensure that the the World Economic Forum on Africa (WEF Africa) in Durban takes place in a safe and secure environment. This comes as WEF Africa has been slammed by a group of NGOs called the People’s Economic Forum for snubbing civil society voices. The People’s Economic Forum, which was launched in Durban on Freedom Day, has also said it will protest at WEF Africa. WEF Africa will be held at the Inkosi Albert Luthuli International Convention Centre from 3-5 May. More than 1,000 participants, including heads of state and government, global leaders from business and civil society are expected to discuss important issues relating to the achievement of inclusive economic growth globally, with specific focus on Africa. Police spokesperson, Brigadier Vishnu Naidoo, said various departments have been activated to deliver on their respective mandates with the ultimate objective of ensuring the safety of all role players, including delegates. Naido said there will be uncompromising security and any criminal or disruptive conduct will result in appropriate action being taken, including arrest and prosecution. “South Africa is renowned for successfully delivering secure major international events and law enforcement agencies with other key stakeholders will continue to be meticulous in the implementation of the security plan,” Naidoo said in a statement. “The NATJOINTS reminds all communities that while the right to protest is respected, any authorised protest action must be conducted in a peaceful, responsible manner, at the designated area and within the confines of the law.” Naidoo said the NATJOINTS has reiterated to law enforcement agencies securing WEF Africa to execute their duties according to their Constitutional mandate and within relevant prescripts. He also alerted motorists that road closures will take place in the city, particularly around the Inkosi Albert Luthuli Convention Centre and said that alternative routes should be planned to prevent frustration. – African News Agency (ANA)