This was announced as Cope threatened to physically block him from returning to his job. Cope spokesperson Dennis Bloem had yesterday threatened that its members would protest outside the Eskom building in Megawatt Park and prevent Molefe from entering the building. Bloem later said they were planning the way forward after the police had reminded them late yesterday they have not applied for permission to picket at Eskom’s offices. The return of Molefe comes on the back of the appearance of Public Enterprises Minister Lynne Brown before the ANC at Luthuli House today. The ANC is insisting that Brown reverses the decision to re-appoint Molefe to his old job. Eskom board spokesperson Khulani Qoma said all necessary measures were put in place to prevent any disruption of their plans for Molefe’s return. “Mr Molefe is accorded VIP protection as per Eskom policy. SAPS has been informed and they will respond appropriately. Eskom security has also been placed on high alert. Importantly, no one has been given permission to march to Eskom,” said Qoma. Bloem said they were still deciding what to do after the police had said their picket outside Eskom offices was illegal. He said they were in a tight space because Eskom’s decision was announced on Friday and to apply for permission to march takes seven days. However, he said they would not allow Molefe to return to work and if they cannot protest today they will do it later after securing permission from the authorities. Molefe could not be reached for comment yesterday and he did not respond to text messages. Molefe’s return to Eskom has been a subject of condemnation from parties in Parliament to civil society groups. The ANC joined other parties last Friday to criticise Eskom for the decision to re-appoint Molefe. But Brown defended the decision, saying she will hear what the ANC says when she appears before it today. Brown said it was a question of whether Molefe was given R30million in a pension payout or whether he returned to the position he left last November. Molefe served his last day as ANC MP yesterday after Parliament also confirmed he was quitting. He quit the job after only three months following his swearing-in in February. He served as a member of the portfolio committee on international relations in Parliament during his three-month stint.