The ANC Youth League on Monday called for former tourism minister Derek Hanekom to make a public apology or resign over his comment that he was not sure who he would vote for in the next elections. Hanekom, who was fired at the end of March during the contentious midnight cabinet reshuffle, said he was not sure if he would vote for the ANC in 2019 general elections. Hanekom remained an ANC MP despite four of his fired cabinet colleagues resigning from Parliament. He also in the ANC national executive committee (NEC) and is the head of the national disciplinary committee (NDC). Reacting to Hanekom’s comment, ANCYL spokesperson Mlondi Mkhize said the youth league had hoped the party leadership would swiftly deal with this matter. The youth league said thus far the ANC leadership seemed to have turned a blind eye to this matter. “As the ANCYL we call on the ANC leadership not be tempted to let comrade Derek off the hook. It is important that we all remain disciplined in the organisation,” Mkhize said. “We are extremely worried because comrade Derek is an NEC member of the ANC and head of the national disciplinary committee. For a person who has such responsibilities he should have known better.” The ANCYL called on the ANC leadership to quickly call Hanekom to order. Mkhize said Hanekom’s comment suggested his vote for the ANC was dependent on who emerges as the ANC leader in the elective conference this year in December. In November last year, Hanekom unsuccessfully tabled a no-confidence motion against ANC President Jacob Zuma during an NEC meeting in Pretoria. “Comrade Derek’s comments suggest that the ANC is less important than the individuals leading it. We strongly condemn this idea of comrade Derek. There can never be an excuse for such a comment,” Mkhize said. “We call on the ANC leadership to demand a immediate public apology or comrade Derek must resign from the NDC and NEC. As the ANCYL we are worried that comrade Derek’s comments are going to inculcate wrong ideas in the organisation and the movement at large.” African News Agency