Other, more special and extravagant treats usually come at a high price. Of course, we would all love to spoil mom with something extra special, but for those on a tight budget it's almost impossible to do so. But do you really need to spend a fortune to make her feel special and treat like the queen she is? Here are a few ideas on how to give mom a spa day (or a few spa treats) that won't make a dent in your pocket. Before you do anything further, dad will have to get the younger kids out of the house for a few hours. I would suggest taking them to a park, a walk or a visit to grandma depending on the treatments you want do. If you want to create a full day at the “spa” then a bit more planning will have to go into getting the kids out the house. The following ideas are ideal for the older kids or the one all grown up (even dad) to do with mom:  Basic Manicure BUSY moms often don’t have the time to do something as simple as applying a bit of nail polish, never mind having the time to sit at a salon to have a manicure. Even if she does, all the work she does around the house doesn’t make it last very long. Which is another reason why she doesn’t even bother. But this shouldn’t stop you from giving her a little treat by doing it for her. Here are some tips on how to give her a basic manicure. Steps to a basic home manicure ● Remove any nail polish if she has any. ● Using a nail file, shape her nails following natural shape of her nails. ● Soak her hands in warm water followed by a simple exfoliating sugar scrub. ● Gently push back cuticles. ● Moisturise hands with her favourite hand lotion. This is a great opportunity to give her hand massage. We use our hands all the time so a gentle massage can do wonders. ● Now her nails are ready to be made glam with a nail polish colour of her choice. Apply a top coat to make sure that her perfect manicure last.  Massage A HARD working mom is one person
who needs a massage the most.
To relieve aching feet, pain in neck
and shoulders caused by tension. How
often haven’t you seen mom rubbing her
aching feet at the end of the day? Now
it is your chance to do it for her. There’s
nothing complicated about giving mom a
neck and shoulder massage, but we get so
caught up in our own lives that we don’t
even think about offering to do so. First, you will need an oil of some kind
to make massaging easier.
Coconut oil is a great option since it’s
an ingredient many already have at home.
It has a pleasant smell and it’s a great
moisturiser.
Another option which can be found
around the house is olive oil. If you have the means to purchase
an aromatic oil, here are a few options: Lavender oil is effective for pain relief
and insomnia. Peppermint oil is great for
tired feet. Bergamont is good for lifting the
mood. You can easily take a foot massage a
step further and include a pedicure as
well. Steps on how to do a basic home
pedi is similar to that of a manicure. ● Remove any nail polish. ● Soak her feet in warm water for
about 10 minutes. Add a few drops of
peppermint oil. ● Clip and file toenails following its
natural shape. Then gently push back
cuticles. ● Scrub away callouses which usually
occur on the back of the heels with
a pumice stone. Be careful not to over
scrub. ● Dry your feet and make sure to wipe
nails to apply nail polish. Complete with
a top coat. Spa Bath WHO doesn’t like to have a long soak in
a hot bath? Relaxing in a hot bath makes
you feel like you are melting all your
troubles away. A little escape from the
world. Create a spa-like body soak for mom
by running a special bath by adding a few
drops of essential oils or scented foam
bath. Set the mood in the bathroom by
creating a warm glow by lighting a few
scented candles.
Pour her a glass of wine or make her a
cup of camomile tea to sip in the bath.
Place her favourite magazine or a book
she hasn’t had the time to read within
reach.
If possible have her favourite tunes
playing softly in the background.
Now all you have to do is allow her
to relax undisturbed for at least
30 minutes.