To combat this dryness, our first response is to rush out to the store and purchase products which promise to restore moisture and rehydrate. Most of these products contain harsh chemicals and often don’t live up to their promises, leaving your pockets empty and your shelves full of unused products. The shelves in your kitchen, on the other hand, are filled with natural ingredients that work wonders on thirsty skin - natural products that will not harm your skin nor your budget. Here are some of the items in your kitchen that will help with dry skin: Bananas: This yummy snack is rich in nutrients such as potassium which can help to hydrate and moisturise skin. Make a simple banana face mask by mashing up a ripe banana and applying it to your face. Leave it on for 15 minutes, then rinse with cold water. Voila, you will have silky soft skin.  Honey: It is a natural humectant which is a  great cure for moisture loss. Spread a thick layer of rich honey on your face and leave it to work its magic for 30 minutes. Then rinse your face thoroughly with plain lukewarm water. Try this every day for a week to see the results. This works best as a night-time routine. Avocado: It’s avo season so getting your hands on this rich and creamy gem won’t be a problem! Avocados are rich in natural oils and you won’t need much to make it work. Since you already have the honey, add two tablespoons to a bowl of mashed avo. Half an avocado will do. Apply the mixture to your skin and leave for 10 minutes. Wipe with a lukewarm face towel. Coconut oil: It has been in the spotlight for a while and used for everything from cooking to grooming. So it shouldn't be that unusual to find a jar of coconut oil in your kitchen and the bathroom. For beauty purposes it’s good to know that it’s rich in Vitamin E which is essential for healthy skin, so it should probably be at the top of your list. There’s nothing complicated about using coconut oil but here is a tip. When buying coconut oil make sure it comes in a jar with a wide opening. Since it’s colder, the oil solidifies which obviously makes it impossible to pour. So you need to be able to get your hand (or a few fingers at least) in the jar to scoop some out. All you then need to do is rub your palms together to heat the oil before rubbing it into your skin. Remember, a little goes a long way so don’t use too much as you don’t want to end up looking too oily.