Before even holding bilateral discussions with his counterpart, Ferreira made an emotional journey to Robben Island, and told journalists in Pretoria yesterday that the experience was “a permanent reminder that oppression cannot overcome the human spirit”. He also said that he would be paying homage to an incredible example of a human being, Oliver Tambo, by visiting his grave site. Nunes emphasised the fact that the most significant aspect of his visit to South Africa was to reaffirm relations with the continent and South Africa, and to assure his counterpart that Africa continues to be a priority in Brazil’s international relations. Minister of International Relations Maite Nkoana-Mashabane depicted relations between the two countries as a “strategic partnership”, highlighting that the two countries worked together in numerous international forums such as IBSA, Brics, the G20, the G77+China, and NAM. “Together as Brics we have created the first post-Bretton Woods Institution – the New Development Bank,” said Nkoana-Mashabane. Nunes noted that Brazil had supported the Africa Regional Centre of the New Development Bank (NDB), which is based in Johannesburg. The body language between the two ministers was unmistakably warm and they spoke of having had a notably productive morning. “South Africa is one of our main trade partners on the continent, and while there was a slight drop in our trade in 2015 owing to the economic difficulties in Brazil, we are rebuilding,” Nunes said. “There have been important investments by South African companies in Brazil, particularly in mining, editing, and the renovation of our airports.” A large trade delegation accompanied the Brazilian minister, and participated in a trade seminar yesterday in which Brazilian companies and entrepreneurs discussed how to increase trade with South Africa. “It is time to put more meaning in our bilateral engagements,” Nkoana-Mashabane said. “We also need to continue to work together on global matters, particularly in advancing south-south co-operation.