This is the aim of the Non-Discrimination Solutions Olympiad, a national competition where school pupils enter solution ideas for any type of discrimination and can win R10 000. The Olympiad, open to all schools from Grade 4 upwards, including special needs schools, will see pupils present and talk about solution ideas for discrimination based on race, gender, disability, bullying culture, prejudice or any issue they wish to address. The idea could be aimed at their school, community, family or further afield. The Non-Discrimination initiative by non-profit company Today’s Future will be judged by, among others, the first female quadriplegic in the world to summit Kilimanjaro, 2013 World of Children Youth Award Winner and 2011 International Children’s Peace Prize Winner Chaeli Mycroft, and SA Business Woman of the Year 2014, Roswitha Becker. The initiative’s Karlind Govender said: “Discrimination is a destructive force. If people fail to continuously act against it, it leads us to a reality with less inclusivity, less diversity and less positive behaviour change.” Mycroft said she chose to be involved in the project because she believed living in a discrimination-free world was possible. “I also believe wholeheartedly that children and young people can and do have the solutions to major social challenges - we just need the opportunity and the platform to show it. "This is such a platform, and I can’t wait to see where these ideas will lead us.” Pupils can enter in their individual capacity or as a student-team, student-teacher team or on behalf of their school. Ideas could be a strategy, service, product, essay, event, theatre, poster, music, poetry, art, technology, video, sports or "anything you think is useful". The Olympiad is open to the Western Cape, Gauteng and KwaZulu-Natal, with other provinces being included in subsequent Olympiads. To enter, pupils can e-mail their name and contact details to info@nondiscrimination.life. All entries will be captured on camera by the August 31, and judged from October 6-8. Visit www.nondiscrimination.life for more information.