Cape Town – Triple murder accused Henri Van Breda was visibly affected as his uncle Andre du Toit gave evidence on Day 20 of the trial. Du Toit is the brother of murdered Teresa Van Breda, Henri's mom, and he was called by the defence team to give evidence in the Western Cape High Court as they continued to prove that Henri’s initial statement is inadmissible. Henri’s uncle detailed to the court how he was informed about an emergency at the estate, and arrived at the murder scene at approximately 10am at the luxury De Zalze estate. Du Toit said he left from Bothasig and arrived at the scene at roughly 10am. He remained on the scene until around 1pm, and had still not seen his nephew. Du Toit became choked up as he recalled the day he received the news of his sister's murder, and while giving evidence Henri also appeared affected by his uncle’s testimony. Du Toit said that while at the scene, he had introduced himself but nobody had spoken to him or informed him about Henri or Marli's whereabouts. He told the court no one told him Marli, the only other survivor of the axe attack, was in hospital. Du Toit said after his wife Sonya arrived at the scene, they went to Stellenbosch Mediclinic, and when State prosecutor Susan Galloway questioned how they knew to look for Marli there, he said it was the only hospital in the area. After he arrived at the hospital, Du Toit said they were informed that Marli was being transported to Vergelegen Mediclinic. Du Toit said they were saddened they were unable to see Marli, but they accepted that the doctors knew best. The couple then travelled to the police station but were prevented from seeing Henri. Galloway had said that Henri at the detective's office, which is at a separate location to the police station. Du Toit said no one had informed him where Henri was, and that he only learned that the detective's office was in a different location after searching for Henri. Du Toit then went to the home of Marli's then-boyfriend James Reade-Jahn, and it was there that they met Henri when he arrived with James, his father, and another of Henri's friends. It was an emotional reunion, Du Toit said. Henri was dressed in boardshorts, a t-shirt and slippers he had received from the mother of his then-girlfriend, Bianca van der Westhuizen. Du Toit told the court he didn't know where Henri had gotten the clothing, and said everyone was crying when they were reunited. "We didn’t talk a lot. We know when he (Henri) speaks fast, he stutters." Henri was crying, Du Toit told the court, and he had opted to stay at the Reade-Jahn home to be close to Marli. Du Toit's wife Sonya then suggested that Henri have a deep wound checked out by a doctor. The uncle was asked about whether or not Henri had had a beer, as the doctor who treated his wound cited Henri had smelled of alcohol, but Du Toit said he didn't see Henri drinking, but it was possible he may have had a drink after they had left the Reade-Jahn home. Earlier, Henri's lawyer Pieter Botha put on record that the doctor who had first examined Henri's wounds, Dr Georgina Albertse, said two police officers accompanied Henri to her office. Alberste had said the accused had arrived in boxer shorts, and one of the officers referred to Henri as a victim. She also said an officer was present throughout the investigation, but couldn't remember which. Court was adjourned to allow lawyers to prepare closing arguments for the trial within a trial on the admissibility of Henri's initial statement to the police.   theolin.tembo@inl.co.za   Cape Argus