Over 400 people participated in the survey, ahead of Bipolar Awareness Day on Friday. The results indicate a need for extensive treatment, seeing that 65% of respondents report having manic highs, 81% experience deep depression, 67% have been hospitalised at least once in their lifetime, and 84% have attempted or considered suicide. Of those who had previously attempted suicide, 27% were younger than 30. Overall, 77% of people who participated in the survey had received treatment from a psychiatrist in private practice. Of the respondents who'd stopped their medication, 24% had done so due to finances. In addition, 40% indicated they’d stopped attending face-to-face counselling sessions because they could no longer afford it. Sadag operations director Cassey Chambers said: “Many patients battle to afford upper-level medical aid plans. When their medical aid runs out - often halfway through the year or after a limited number of psychiatric visits - they stop treatment because the bills are too high. This is likely to lead to relapse, and it raises the risk of suicide.” While it's positive to see that most respondents had told a family member, friend or colleague about their condition, and that the responses were largely supportive, 26% still faced lack of understanding, dismissal, insults, prejudice, or hostility - and 45% reported experiencing discrimination in the workplace. This kind of discrimination included being labelled as "difficult to work with" or being fired due to time taken off work for doctor's appointments or hospitalisation. Karin Visagie, who runs a bipolar and depression support group in Goodwood, and herself suffers with bipolar disorder, said patients often face an uphill battle in trying to get help from medical aid schemes for mental health issues. “The benefits are so limited, and even then you often have to fight for every benefit you get. “You are lucky if you have an employer who understands what you're going through and understands your doctor visits. I've been in a job situation where they don't want you to go to your doctor. You look normal in their eyes, so they don't understand why you need to.” Contact Sadag on 0800 70 80 90 or visit www.sadag.org.