Nepalese officials discovered Ryan Sean Davy in his hideaway after he had already climbed more than 6 100 metres. He was ordered off the mountain, had his passport confiscated and will be fined £17 000 (almost R300 000), an official said. Foreigners have to pay the Nepal government £8 500 for permission to climb the 8 848m peak – a major currency earner for the impoverished country. Gyanendra Shrestha, a government liaison officer at the mountain’s base camp, said: “I followed him with my friend and found him hiding in a cave nearby. He had set up camp in an isolated place to avoid government officials.” Davy could be banned from Nepal for five years or face a 10-year ban on climbing in the country. He told officials he didn’t have enough money for a flight to Kathmandu to reclaim his passport. On Monday Davy explained himself in a Facebook post. "This news is probably going to make a lot of people upset with me and I really hope you'll all forgive me. I'm willing to be as accountable as I know how but my Everest expedition has taken a very bad turn. I am going to be honest in saying that when I arrived at Base Camp it became evident that I didn't have nearly enough money for a solo permit because of hidden costs and even if I did they would have declined it because I had no previous mountaineering experience on record. "I was ashamed that I couldn't afford the permit after all the help, preparation and what everybody had done for me during my training, it would have been a total embarrassment to turn around and accept defeat because of a piece of paper. So I took a chance and spent the little money I had on more gear to climb and practice on the surrounding peaks for acclimatizing in preparing for a stealth entry onto Everest. "My main incentive for being on the mountain was to help anyone who might have been in trouble since every year there are so many fatalities. In one incident 40 climbers walked right past a dying man who was pleading for help. He inevitably died because all the climbers were fixed on the Summit and didn't want to get distracted. If I could at least have helped one person it would have made a difference, that would have been my Summit. Unfortunately the system caught up with me and I was eventually captured by the mountain Orks after 2 entries into the Ice Falls and managing an ascent of 24,000ft. Expedition companies have no time for wanna be Everesters with no money so someone turned me in. I was harassed at basecamp to a point that I honestly thought I was going to get stoned to death right there. I'm not even exaggerating. I was treated like a murderer. A true testimony of how money has become more important than decency. "My passport has been confiscated and I am being sent to Katmandu where I will face penalties, apparently I'm in for jail time. I am so sorry that I have let all my supporters down and those who had faith in me, but please believe me when I say I will find the means to finish what I started. Unfortunately it will have to be put on hold for the next season or until I am allowed! It's a hurdle of which I will find a way over. I was so close... Good bye Himalayas, I will miss you😒 "To all my close friends and family who I know will want to jump in and rescue me by paying the exorbitant 5 digit $ fines or bail fees, please I beg you, Do not! This was my doing and I took the risks, I am accountable. I would feel really really bad if someone baled me out for something I did on my own accord. This will pass as everything else does in life and I will return for a second attempt! I love all those who have loved and supported me, you know who you are😉" Daily Mail, dpa and IOL 