On the 7th day of Henri van Breda’s trial, De Zalze Estate security manager Marcia Rossouw testified that someone had reported hearing a car driving off at high speed on the morning three Van Breda family members were butchered with an axe. Upon investigation, it turned out to be a false alarm, and was simply the newspaper delivery man doing his job. Rossouw told the Western Cape High Court yesterday that on January 27, 2015, police rushed toward the entrance of the estate and, when she was told what had happened, Rossouw said she instructed her staff members to inspect the perimeter for signs of an intrusion. Rossouw also checked camera footage for clues, but found nothing suspicious, she said. “We investigated and found it was the person who delivers newspapers. He drove a loud car.” The person delivered newspapers to the doorsteps of residents, Rossouw said. Van Breda’s mother, Teresa, 55, father Martin, 54, and brother Rudi, 22, were hacked to death with an axe, while his sister, Marli, 16 at the time, survived a physical assault, and now suffers from retrograde amnesia. Van Breda, 22, has been charged with three counts of murder, one of attempted murder, and one of defeating the ends of justice, to which he has pleaded not guilty. Van Breda’s defence advocate, Pieter Botha, yesterday continued to attempt to show that the security system could be breached. This is crucial to their case as, in a plea explanation, Van Breda said that an attacker wearing a balaclava broke into their house that night and carried out the crimes. Botha yesterday put previous evidence to Rossouw that the alarm was activated three times on the night before, and on the morning of the murders. Rossouw yesterday said the alarms were not warning sirens, and instead a notice to the control centre that there was a slip in the system’s temperature. Botha also put it to Rossouw that alleged perpetrators could have placed sticks or dead frogs against the electric fence that secures the estate, as a distraction when jumping over. “They would know they have a few minutes before security arrives at the point where the alarm was triggered. “In that time they could enter the estate and when security arrives and sees the sticks or dead animals against the fence, they won’t know where people have entered?” Botha said. Rossouw, although sceptical, said it was possible. The trial continues.