But don’t let the guilt dampen your vacation. Eco-friendly travel practices can lift the remorse and lighten the blemish on Mother Earth. According to a TripAdvisor survey, nearly two-thirds of travellers plan to make more environmentally sound choices over the next year. A majority of respondents said they turn off the lights when leaving their rooms, participate in the hotel’s programme to reuse linens and towels, and recycle on-site. Travellers can do much more by building an eco-trip block by block. “Sustainable travel is all about creating a positive effect on the communities you visit,” said Jon Bruno, executive director of the International Ecotourism Society. “Leave the place better than you found it.” Easy, right? Not always. Environmentalists often tout arcane terms such as low-VOC paint, warm-mix asphalt and aeroponic gardening. Eco-extremists can make you feel guilty for wanting a hot shower and light bulbs that don’t cause eye strain. And less-than-honest properties and tour operators embellish their Earth-friendly achievements, an act of falsehood called “greenwashing”. But don’t let these challenges deter you. “When our choices align with our eco-interests and values,” said Dawn Head, owner and editor of the online resource Go Green Travel Green, “it doesn’t feel like we are making sacrifices to be green.” For guidance on planning the ultimate eco-trip, we turned to a panel of green-travel experts. Choosing a green destination No destination is a Green Giant; they all make environmental missteps. However, some countries and cities demonstrate a deep commitment to Earth-friendly policies and practices. Ask for a recycling bin and they’ll point to three. Bruno, whose organisation promotes ecotourism, commends the efforts of Namibia, where its constitution includes habitat conservation and the protection of natural resources, and Ecuador, which placed 97% of the Galapagos’s landmass under the watchful gaze of its national park service. Among emerging locales, Bruno is keeping an eye on Uzbekistan, a former Soviet republic with a burgeoning outdoor culture (skiing, mountaineering, white-water rafting, birding); alternative lodging, such as yurts and cooperative-run guest houses in the Nuratau-Kyzylkum Biosphere Reserve; and more than 1000 native varieties of apples. In Brazil, he praises the ambitions of the town of Bonito, the Portuguese word for beautiful. “This little town has put everything behind ecotourism,” he said. “The Rio da Prata is so clear, it feels as if you’re hanging in the air watching the fish float by.” Everyone and their science teacher seems to publish an annual list of the world’s greenest destinations. Dual Citizen, a consulting firm, released the fifth edition of its Global Green Economy Index last year. Of 80 countries and 50 cities surveyed, the company anointed Sweden the top green banana, followed by Norway and Finland. And while Asia didn’t fare well, Cambodia did improve its standing, rising 20 spots to 20th. (The US placed 30th.) But don’t judge a destination by its ranking, or lack thereof. When researching a vacation spot, look for places that naturally embrace the green lifestyle. Telltale signs include a robust public transportation system, hectares of parkland, walkable neighbourhoods, designated bike lanes, farmers markets and volunteer opportunities. Head has an important message for “last chancers”: Ignore the clarion call to “go before it’s gone”. She warns that travellers can do more harm than good by visiting endangered areas, such as a Pacific island under threat from rising seas, a melting glacier in Antarctica and an aboriginal rock worn down by countless pairs of feet. Choosing a green mode of transportation What makes Mother Earth proud? Seeing you use your own power to get around. Many adventure-tour operators, such as Backroads and VBT, arrange cycling, hiking and walking holidays. Bonus points if you can reach the starting point by bike or foot. Next in line are trains and buses. However, their impact on the environment depends on such factors as route, fuel type and passenger load. “Among land transport, trains are generally very environmentally friendly,” said Randy Durband, chief executive of the Global Sustainable Tourism Council. The greenest rides typically run on electric power or alternative fuels and boast a high occupancy rate. If you plan to drive, consider renting a fuel-efficient vehicle. Hertz introduced the Green Traveller Collection in 2011. The programme, which is available at select locations, stocks a variety of models, such as the Toyota Prius and Nissan LEAF. And now for the black sheep of the chartreuse bunch: airplanes. “There really aren’t any green ways of flying,” Head said. “Just minimise as much as you can.” To shrink your carbon footprint, the experts offer a litany of suggestions. Travel less but stay longer. Select a full flight on a large plane in a fuel-efficient fleet. Book the itinerary with the fewest number of connections, because take-offs and landings guzzle fuel. Pack light and bring a refillable water bottle and snacks from home. And pass on first-class: The extra leg and elbow room is a waste of space and fuel. Choosing a green hotel No pressure, but “Once you are at your destination, if you can get the hotel right,” Head said, “you can make the greatest impact.” Unfortunately, hotels ribbit their greenness louder than a pond of frogs. The cacophony can be deafening, and dishonest. To silence the noise, Head suggests focusing on the issues that matter the most to you. Then find a hotel that matches your priorities. “Decide your cause and what you won’t compromise on,” she said. Most major chains and many independent hotels operate in-house green programmes.
Look for a fact sheet online, or call the front desk and unleash 
the questions. Ask them how they dispose of their grey water and if they compost. Inquire about the bathroom fixtures and toiletries, in-room recycling bins and the provenance of the restaurant food. The most holistically green hotels support the three pillars of sustainable tourism: environmental, social and economic. “If you have an opportunity to stay with a local provider in an eco-lodge,” Bruno said, “that can be more sustainable” than a LEED hotel. As a guest, you can also advance the cause without much effort. Some ways you can help: Participate in the hotel’s linen-and-towel-reuse programme and always flick off the lights when you leave the room. Skip the bottles of water in your room and refill your own beverage container. Decline housekeeping and, depending on the hotel, score a food-and-beverage credit. Use water glasses and coffee mugs instead of plastic or paper ones. At breakfast, ask the staff for real tableware instead of disposable plates and utensils. Avoid buffets, which result in mounds of wasted food. Recycle. Choosing green activities The Earth-friendly options are legion: You can sail, snorkel, scuba dive, hike, paddleboat, paddleboard, kayak, bike, swim, bird-watch and play I-spy-a-monkey in a tree. Visit a crafts or food market, and don’t forget to bring a reusable bag for purchases. Take a tour that employs local guides. Give yourself an extra pat on the back if the company donates some of its proceeds to a local conservation group or charity.