Cape Town – The parents of murdered teen Franziska Blochliger said they are still in shock and are struggling with the grief of their daughter’s brutal murder after Howard Oliver was found guilty of her rape and murder. Howard Oliver pleaded guilty to two charges of rape, a charge of robbery and the murder of the 16-year-old girl. On Wednesday, a letter from Franziska’s parents, Shireen and Andreas Blochliger, was read out in the Western Cape High Court in aggravation of sentence. "The loss of a child is almost indescribable," the letter read. "There’s pain, there’s sadness, there’s anguish but acceptance is the hardest. To know that our child suffered and needed us, that is the most devastating. The loss of a child is a traumatic experience; you lose a piece of yourself that can never be regained." The parents wrote that they had moved homes and schools and were receiving counselling. The death of their daughter had impacted on their marriage due to "feelings of blame and guilt". "There can never be any justification for taking her life. We only hope that the person responsible for this brutal act of violence against an innocent child is NOT ALLOWED to walk free to hurt another person," the parents wrote. Earlier in court, Judge Kate Savage found the accused guilty on all four charges. Oliver, dressed in a blue shirt and black and grey jacket, had tears streaming down his face as each charge was read out. Silence in the courtroom was broken each time he sniffed and wiped the tears from his face. His family in the gallery was also crying during the judgment. "The brutal attack perpetrated by the accused to Franziska Blochliger, a teenager deeply loved by those around her, was shocking, unprovoked and senseless. The accused senselessly robbed the deceased of her constitutional right to life, her right to bodily integrity and her right as a child to be protected from maltreatment, abuse and degradation," Savage said. She said fact that the accused had indicated to his boss his intent to rob someone for money and roam around the area showed his "clear election to carry out his plan". "He robbed the family and society of a young vibrant life full of possibility. "Through his conduct he again made plain to this court the urgency to which our society needs to act to protect women and children across all communities," Savage said. State prosecutor Lenro Badenhorst said Oliver had ten previous convictions including assault, robbery and possession of drugs. He said he had shown no remorse. "He made witnesses, including the parents of the deceased, go through a trial knowing he is guilty. He took a chance by trying to implicate others. "The court should take serious the crime; there is no substantial reasons to deviate from the minimum subscribed sentence," said Badenhorst. Oliver was among four suspects arrested in connection with Franziska’s murder in Tokai forest, last year. Two suspects, Jerome Moses and Daniel Easter, were handed suspended sentences in the Wynberg Magistrate's Court after they pleaded guilty to buying Blochliger’s stolen cellphone, while co-accused Jonathan Jonas abandoned his bail application.  zodidi.dano@inl.co.za  Cape Argus