The Hawks have sprung into action to get to the root of the allegations of bribery and corruption. Even pressure groups like the KZN medical school’s Progressive Youth Alliance (PYA) has called for the immediate  removal if staff are implicated in this scandal. It must be understood that at the heart of this problem is the quota sytem that limits students' enrolment based on the basis of race. An African student wanting to study medicine needs a 60% pass to qualify while Indian students require almost 90% to be accepted. Hence loopholes within the system are going to be exploited for students to obtain a medical place. Generally speaking, students with distinctions, some above 95%, feel they are being short-changed by biased yet necessary regulations that keep them from realising their dreams. One wonders what the agenda or leverage political groups or even the Hawks acquire by giving these cases so much prominence. This case broke last week yet newspapers still have it as their headlines. Murder cases are not even dealt with with so much enthusiasm. Anybody who breaks the law needs to be prosecuted accordingly. Could this be an easy case to crack and probably be a feather in the cap of the Hawks? The files of many high-profile cases remain unsolved and open. Selective prosecutions by government institutions will always come under scrutiny. The notion that everybody is equal before the law is being questioned. The politically connected are evading prosecutions as some cases do not even make it to court. Bribery and corruption has to be reduced. Perpetrators must face the consequences of their actions. Selective prosecutions will dent the credibility of the state thereby resulting in the citizens viewing them with suspicion. Let’s hope there is a speedy resolution to the selling of medical places saga. This should not end here. The system of quotas need to be thoroughly investigated. However we will not see the end of this type of corruption. As long as selections are biased and not based on meritocratic principles, there will always be people who will use this as an opportunity to exploit the prevailing trends for their own benefit. Vijay Surujpal Phoenix