Top of their list is the outspoken ANC MP Makhosi Khoza. But they have also named ANC chief whip Jackson Mthembu and former finance minister Pravin Gordhan as possibly voting against Zuma if the Constitutional Court rules that Speaker Baleka Mbete has the powers to call for a secret ballot in the motion of no-confidence against the president. Youth league regional secretary Thinta Cibane wants Khoza, Mthembu and Gordhan kicked out of Parliament immediately. He said although there were other ANC MPs he regarded as untrustworthy, he did not believe they were enough to help the opposition to remove Zuma. Yesterday, Khoza said she would vote to save the ANC, rather than vote for an “amoral leader”, The ANCYL has vowed to picket her wherever she goes. To this end, its eThekwini branch said it would protest at a book launch in the city tomorrow by Durban-based political think-tank Xubera Institute for Research and Development. Khoza is listed as one of the guest speakers at the launch of a book entitled Making Africa Work. Other speakers are the co-author, former Nigerian president Olusegun Obasanjo, and former Zimbabwean industry and international trade minister Nkosana Moyo. Cibane has threatened protests against Khoza at the hotel in which the event is being held, and at her home, with the aim being to force her to resign from Parliament. Khoza said she had phoned ANC KwaZulu-Natal secretary Super Zuma to complain about the league. She said he had promised to instruct it to stop intimidation. But Cibane said protests would continue even though he had been told by Zuma not to give Khoza more attention than she deserved. Khoza said the planned protest was a threat to her safety. She called on the league to respect her views because she respected 
theirs. “They must not disrupt me, they must not intimidate me because I don’t intimidate them,” she said. Xolani Dube of the Xubera Institute said the ANCYL was displaying the attitude of hooligans. “The ANC cannot be an enemy of the society that it is claiming to lead. People who are planning to disrupt the book launch are just seeking fame,” he said.