Cope is taking legal action against Premier Ace Magashule’s government after its acting national treasurer Teboho Loate was suspended this week for “disrespectful utterances” on April 12. Loate is a chief director in the province’s Department of Sport, Arts, Culture and Recreation. He was placed on immediate suspension earlier this week by his head of department, Stanley Malope, for statements he made on the National Day of Action in Pretoria on April 12. Thousands of people, led by opposition parties and civil society organisations, gathered at the Union Buildings to demand Zuma’s resignation. Independent Media is in possession of a series of communications between Loate and Malope, wherein the “flagrant disrespect” remained a point of contention. However, Malope refused to explain what Loate had done to allegedly disrespect the president. Loate’s saga began late last month when he received a precautionary letter - which Independent has seen - on April 24 from Malope in which he said he should explain why he should not be placed on special leave. “I was made aware of alleged utterances by yourself on or about April 12 in which you displayed flagrant disrespect to the presidentit is also alleged that this behaviour will continue in the future.” He asked for the specific circumstances under which he made the allegations and "where does the president as the head of the executive and as a public office bearer, feature in this intended precautionary suspension against me?” Things came to a head on Tuesday when Malope refused to provide the information regarding the circumstances under which the alleged comments were made because “the allegations are subject 
to investigation and the information will be available once the investigation is 
completed”. Loate said he believed attending the “anti-Zuma” march was what led to his suspension. “If you look at the date on which I’m alleged to have made these comments, whatever those comments were, it is the National Day of Action I attended. But I believe that the bigger picture is my political affiliation,” he said. His views were echoed by Willie Madisha, the deputy president of Cope, who said he was very angry with Magashule and his government. “We as the Congress of the People will take this matter up both legally and politically. I have already dispatched lawyers to attend to this matter, and I will also be raising this matter in Parliament,” Madisha told Independent. “It is utter rubbish what Magashule and his people are doing, where they are tampering with our national treasurer’s rights.” Loate said he had worked well with Malope since his superior’s arrival in early February this year and that the relationship only turned sour when he attended the march. Communications director Tankiso Zola said the department could not comment at this stage as the matter was still under investigation. Spokesperson for the premier’s office, Tiisetso Makhele, said it was not aware of Loate’s suspension, but that it would investigate the matter.