“I never thought in all my years that I would live so long,” said the chirpy centenarian. “All the hardships and good I performed (in my life), this (centenary) is my change (reward),” she beamed, in ascribing her longevity in having turned 100 years old on April 25. Further emphasising her strength and happiness, she performed passionate versions of her favourite hymn and lullaby to an audience which  included her granddaughter Blanche Daniels, two friends and three journalists. She even started a merry dance. “I believe in God and every time I go out I asked God to please give me an angel to go with me to the shops, and when I get into a taxi at my gate they put me down here again (afterwards),” she exclaimed proudly. Chippendale, whose maiden name is Trichardt, was born in Kimberley, Northern Cape, to Charles and Johanna Chippendale. From the age of 7 she grew up in District Six’s Roos Street, with brother Henry and sisters Charlotte and Petronella. She has outlived them all. She recalled her family being forcibly moved to Manenberg, in the Cape Flats, when that township was created by apartheid’s Group Areas Act, and remembers key historical events, such as the country’s youth protests of the 1970s and 1980s as well as World War 2 when residents had to queue for food. She recalled the birth of gangs such as the Hard Livings, whose then leaders tried to win people’s loyalty by giving them food and paying their electrical accounts and funeral costs, as well as the heydays of radios and the advent of television. The bespectacled Chippendale said she could not remember the date of her marriage and that her sight was becoming dimmer, but that she could still count her money. Chippendale had three children - Mogamat Trichard, who had since died, Brenda (* ée Trichardt) Tamboer and Theodore Chippendale. The centenarian’s granddaughter Daniels said she and her three siblings were reared by Chippendale. “My granny was very strict. Me and my three siblings grew up with her.” An acquaintance, Louise Petersen said: “It’s a miracle 
to see a lady of 100 years old with a very good sense of humour.”  raphael.wolf@inl.co.za 