Instead Mafevuka was raped and strangled before her body was dumped. Her naked body was found in a toilet the following morning at SST Block in Khayelitsha. Testifying in the Western Cape High Court before acting Judge Taswell Papier yesterday, Imanthi told how she had searched for answers when she was greeted by shocked residents. She had also gone to use the toilet on March 2 last year. The last time she had seen Mafevuka alive was when the teenager had gone to the toilet about 7pm. She had left her cellphone charging. “I expected her to come back because she had left her cellphone behind. She had been cooking when she left. We were ready to have supper.” She said it was not unusual for Mafevuka to not return home, as she would sometimes spend the night at her boyfriend's house. Mafevuka’s neighbours Xolisa and Athabile Mafilika, who are cousins, have been charged with her rape and murder. The two, who are also cousins of Mafevuka’s boyfriend, have pleaded not guilty to the charges. Iminathi said she identified Mafevuka’s clothes found at the scene, as police conducted their investigations, but was still not sure if Mafevuka had been murdered. “I said to the person next to me, 'it could be Sinoxolo in there'. I stood there with other residents to try and establish if indeed it was her until they took the clothes out. “I first thought that she did not sleep at home and the clothing found looked like what she was wearing the previous day. I did not want to be sure it was her." Neighbours took Iminathi away from the scene after she started crying. She then went to Mafevuka’s boyfriend's shack nearby, but it was locked. She then went to the accused's family home and was told Mafevuka’s boyfriend had left for work. Iminathi established that her sister-in-law was killed after police requested her ID to confirm particulars. The first police officer to arrive at the scene, Constable Nomampondomise Gobodo, was grilled by defence advocate Shaid Bruinders yesterday. Bruinders questioned Gobodo about then police deputy minister Maggie Sotyu’s criticism of the police for dragging their feet in dealing with the case. Gobodo said she did not remember police being criticised. The trial continues today.  siyavuya.mzantsi@inl.co.za 