On Wednesday, it was reported Dlamini pre-empted his foes when he apologised at the opening of the union federation’s special central executive committee (CEC) on Monday. He attended the bash in Soweto last month, despite the federation having taken a decision that Zuma should step down. Considered a loyal Zuma ally, Dlamini called on Zuma to “remain strong” in the midst of these “hard, trying times”. Zuma looked on as Dlamini told him: “As you are my leader and we tackle these issues I need you to be strong.” Cosatu has also taken a decision that Zuma, who was heckled, booed and prevented from addressing a May Day rally in Bloemfontein, was no longer welcome to attend and address its gatherings. Speaking to The Sunday Independent on Sunday, Nehawu general secretary Bereng Soke said although the issue was not on the agenda of the Cosatu CEC meeting starting tomorrow, it could still come up during assessment of the performance of the leadership. It is understood that Nehawu, ironically the union where Dlamini comes from, was planning to call for his removal at the CEC. Spokesperson for teachers’ union Sadtu Nomusa Cembi said: “If there are unions which still want Dlamini to account for having attended the president’s birthday, they can do so. But from our side as Sadtu we say because he has already apologised, we forgive him.” SA Municipal Workers Union president Pule Molalenyane said it too had forgiven Dlamini. "The president has identified he made a mistake by attending the birthday. It’s for us to forgive and ensure that he builds a strong federation. We have forgiven him. The issue won’t be raised at the CEC (by us).” Popcru president Zizamele Cebekhulu said it had no position on moves to unseat Dlamini. “We don’t know of any item that talks of S’dumo Dlamini in the whole agenda.” Cebekhulu said there were no preparations for Dlamini’s recall. NUM spokesperson Livhuwani Mammburu said its delegation would meet at 2pm today to caucus on issues to take to the meeting. Cosatu wants Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa to succeed Zuma when he steps down as ANC leader in December. This could  pave the way for him to become state president in 2019. Ramaphosa is expected to address the Cosatu meeting. @luyolomkentane Political Bureau