So asked forensic pathologist Marianne Tiemensma of Henri van Breda’s wounds as she testified yesterday, saying the triple-murder accused's wounds had been consistent with being self-inflicted. Tiemensma told the court Van Breda’s wounds varied significantly from those of his family members. Van Breda, on trial for the murder of three of his family members and the attempted murder of his sister, had sustained several knife wounds to his chest and arm, as well as a stab wound in his abdomen on the night of the murders. In a plea explanation Van Breda said a “laughing” axe-wielding murderer was behind the brutal killings, and had cut and slashed at his chest and left arm. Tiemensma, who last week gave evidence on his injuries, was called back to court yesterday, and said the wounds Van Breda alleged were from an intruder were “linear, parallel” and “appeared to be of equal depth”. “If you look at the pictures you can see the cut is superficial, non-fatal, and is not a danger to life, unless it were to get infected. These are signs of it being self-inflicted,” Tiemensma said. Tiemensma then referenced Van Breda’s plea explanation, in which he says he was at the foot of bed with the alleged attacker in front of him. Each allegedly grabbed the other’s arms, and during that time Van Breda was slashed and stabbed with a knife, he said. “I don’t know how another person would have managed to get the knife past him (Henri) without scratching him more. The wounds are in very strong contrast to what the other victims sustained. Henri’s were superficial and minor, and the rest have extensive chop wounds that resulted in death,” Tiemensma said. When it came to the stab wound in his lower abdomen, Tiemensma testified it too was superficial. Van Breda’s legal representative, advocate Pieter Botha, used the knife in question to demonstrate in court how another person could have assaulted his client, and that it was possible for the scratches to be inflicted by another person. Botha also disputed the depth of the stab wound, and said it could have been about 5cm deep. Tiemensma disagreed with this. Van Breda’s mother, Teresa, 55, father Martin, 54, and brother Rudi, 22, were killed with an axe in their De Zalze Estate house in Stellenbosch on January 27, 2015. His sister, Marli, 16 at the time of the attack, survived.  francesca.villette@inl.co.za 