South Africa’s leading climate experts have warned that the Western Cape can expect even less rain in the foreseeable future. “It is a very grim picture. If we want to stand a chance of mitigating climate change, we must find an alternative energy mix,” said one. This as the city’s mayoral committee yesterday recommended Level 4 water restrictions and dam levels in the region continue to drop at an alarming rate. The restrictions would ban all use of municipal water for outside and non-essential use. If approved, it will come into effect from June 1. South Africa’s foremost climate experts met at the Department of Rural Development and Land Reform in Cape Town this week to deliberate on whether the 2017 winter season in the province may be drier than normal or relatively normal - neither of which would alleviate the current low reservoir levels. The experts agreed that the extremely low reservoir levels were at least partly a result of an accumulated two to three years of relatively low winter rainfall. And they said there was little doubt the province needs to prepare, in the longer term, for a drier climate. Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) chief researcher Professor Francois Engelbrecht said: “In the long term, at the multi-decade time-scale, the outlook for the south-western Cape region is very negative. ‘‘It is projected that we will experience a systematic reduction in rainfall as we move deeper into the 21st century. The region is predicted to be drastically warmer. “Climate models project that toward the end of the century, the region will experience temperatures between 3 to 5°C warmer than it is today,” he said. “Towards the end of the century the loss of rainfall is projected to be between 10 and 40%,” Engelbrecht said. “There are grave concerns of the impact of these changes for the south-western Cape. We can see how vulnerable the region is in terms of water security. There would also be an increase in the number of fires, endangering local biodiversity. “It is a very grim picture. If we want to stand a chance of mitigating climate change, we must find an alternative energy mix.”Between June and August this year there were good prospects of normal to above normal rainfall, but the skill needed to make a forecast for the next winter rainfall season was at best marginal, Engelbrecht said. Alliance for Collaboration on Climate and Earth Systems Science (Access) director Dr Neville Sweijd said: “The current drought is a combination of a decrease in previous winters’ replenishment as well as an increased demand for water. The climate models might suggest that there is a greater than 50% likelihood of above average rainfall this coming season, but our confidence in that assessment is still very low, therefore there is no definitive story to tell about this season’s rainfall”. Yesterday, the city warned all water users to use municipal water for essential washing, cooking and drinking purposes only as dam levels were critical and consumption remained too high. Mayoral committee member for informal settlements, water and waste services and energy Xanthea Limberg said about Level 4: “The intensified restriction specifically makes reference to a limit on water use to 100 litres or less per person per day.” Filling or topping up of pools is prohibited. The proposed fines to accompany Level 4 restrictions are subject to council and the Chief Magistrate’s approval. They range between R1 000 and R5 000. Most of the fines have been increased  because of the severity of the situation at hand. The Department of Water and Sanitation, in partnership with the provincial government, hosted a high-level Water Indaba in Rawsonville yesterday. Some of the medium- to long-term interventions to address water supply in the province, discussed by the stakeholders, included: the Berg River-Voëlvlei (Phase 1) augmentation scheme - diverting surplus winter water into Voëlvlei Dam. The estimated cost of the project is R500 million. Plus the possible fast-tracking of the development of the Table Mountain Group Aquifer.