The Twitter Blanket Drive in partnership with the #DignityDrive has called on South Africans to open their hearts and not only donate blankets to this year’s campaign but also sanitary products for school-going girls and young women who can’t afford them. Last year, in celebration of his 31st birthday, local TV personality, Siv Ngesi opted out of a birthday bash and instead challenged South Africans to donate sanitary products for girls. Millions of girls in South Africa cannot afford sanitary pads or other products used during menstruation resulting some girls even having to skip school. “If men bled once a month, there would be free pads available, like condoms! I will not rest until this is a reality” Ngesi says. All sanitary products collected will be distributed to school-going girls and young women through associated partners. For the past eight years, South Africa’s Twitter community has united to help donate thousands of warm blankets for the poor just in time for winter. Judging by the early signs, it’s going to be an extra cold one this year. “With winter around the corner, we know that charities struggle to try and meet the demand for blankets for the underprivileged. But in today’s digital world, we have the power to make that change’’ #TBD2017’s national co- ordinator and Cape Town host, Merentia van der Vent said. The Protea’s Fire & Ice Hotel’s in Cape Town, Pretoria and Johannesburg will once again be supporting the cause and act as the main drop-off zones’ for anyone interested in donating blankets up until the final event on Thursday, May 25 2017. Supporters and donors can join the team to count all the blankets and enjoy performances from local artists. South Africa’s oldest wine-producing estate, Groot Constantia will also be an official drop off zone and for every blanket donated, at the wine farm, between April 3 and May 25, the donator will receive a free wine tasting, as well as a souvenir Spiegelau crystal wine glass (all worth R75). For more information or to become involved in this year’s drive, visit www.twitterblanketdrive.com Get involved on Twitter using the hashtag #TBD2017 and #DignityDrive