The police watchdog alleged that Phahlane was interfering in an investigation against him. The two parties traded verbal blows in Parliament where they had been asked to appear by the portfolio committee on police to explain their dispute. This followed a complaint by Ipid head Robert McBride two weeks ago that Phahlane was interfering in investigations against him. This was repeated by the Ipid boss yesterday, who also called for Phahlane to be suspended pending an investigation. But Phahlane did not take the accusations against him lying down. He accused Ipid of being used by private investigator Paul O’Sullivan. He denied he had deployed a unit from the North West to investigate Ipid investigators who are probing him for corruption. He said it was not his call to be suspended by the president. “I know Ipid wants me to be suspended. I did not appoint myself as acting national commissioner, I was appointed by the president. I am not glued to the chair of the acting national commissioner,” he said. The investigation against him was being driven by O’Sullivan. “Without any fear of contradiction, Ipid as an independent body doesn’t exist is not functioning. Under the current circumstances it might be safe to call it Opid - O’Sullivan’s Police Investigative Directorate,” said Phahlane, suggesting there was a nefarious relationship between O’Sullivan and McBride. Phahlane said he had taken the matter to court. He had been willing to co-operate with the investigation conducted by Ipid. McBride denied claims that he had brought in the media during a raid on Phahlane’s house  in Pretoria. This was after Phahlane said he had not been at home when the raid occurred last year. He said there had been several breaches, including the questioning of his minor daughter by Ipid. Chairperson of the portfolio committee on police Francois Beukman called on the two bodies to work together. He said Ipid and the SAPS must respect each other’s mandate and avoid interference in their respective work. Beukman said they also wanted Police Minister Fikile Mbalula to come to the committee to further deal with the matter. They wanted Ipid and the SAPS to make further submissions, and the committee would meet again soon.