Family members gathered in the Pluto Street home when Courtney’s body arrived for the funeral procession. The hearse was accompanied by a motorcycle escort and a brass band. From there, the funeral procession made its way to the Adriaanse Community Hall where hundreds of people had crammed in for the funeral service. A officer of the Apostolic church opened by saying: “We all know today is about a little girl that crawled into our hearts in two weeks.” Hundreds of residents had earlier also taken part in a peace march from the nearby Elsies River High School. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The rape and murder of the little shocked South Africa, with President Jacob Zuma, Police Minister Fikile Mbalula and Western Cape Community Safety MEC Dan Plato all taking turns to visit the family this past week. Zuma had also gone to visit the site in nearby Epping where Courtney’s body was discovered last Saturday, nine days after she had gone missing. A 40-year-old man who lived with the Pieters family appeared in the Goodwood Magistrate’s Court on Wednesday, facing charges of rape and murder related to the death of Courtney. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. In a statement issued earlier this week, Zuma had expressed his shock and repulsion at the killing of Courtney and other cases around the country where woman and children had been violently targeted. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. “Our prayers and thoughts are with the families during this difficult period. The incidents have caused untold pain amongst South Africans and this is the time for us to unite and isolate these cruel perpetrators of this shameful and hateful crime against women and children,” Zuma said at the time. African News Agency