The month-long youth festival runs from June 3 to July 15, showcasing the diverse talents of the City’s young people. Artscape chief executive Marlene le Roux, said it was important to commemorate the sacrifices made by young people in the June 16, 1976 Soweto Youth Uprising. She cited unemployment as the biggest issue facing the country’s youth, pointing out that even those who completed tertiary education struggled to find employment. Artscape has joined forces with the Department of Education to give pupils the opportunity to study subjects like drama, music and dance at school. The festival will start on June 3 with the Cape Town College of Magic’s Imagine! Family Magic Spectacular in two shows at 12pm and 2.30pm. Illusions, comedic antics and magic will have the whole family enthralled. Also featured will be Jing’elweni (hanging from a cliff), in partnership with Uprising Arts Project. It tells the story of young Kwindla who clings to her education and reading books as an escape from the turmoil and poverty surrounding her. The play will be staged from June 5-8 at 7.30pm. Top hip-hop dancers will bring their explosive skills to the stage on June 9-10 for Cape Town’s Most Wanted. On Youth Day and June 17, well known comedian, dancer and actor Ambrose Uren hosts the Youth Comedy Festival. Youth Day will be a hive of activity with, among others, the Desmond Tutu and Leah Foundation hosting health workshops between 9am and 1pm and entertainment by the Uitsig Rieldansers and the Buyelekhaya Dancers. Dumi Mkokstad and Betusile Mcinga end the day with their One Night Only Live DVD Recording in the Artscape Theatre from 6pm. The award-winning gospel duo will be performing their newest releases alongside a full band for this evening of praise and worship. The Sekunjalo Edujazz concert on July 1 is joined by Dynamic Voices featuring Robin Pieters, Sasha-Lee Davids and Elwira Standili, special guests Lana Crowster and Sammy Webber, for a two-and-a-half hour musical extravaganza. *  Tickets range from R40 to R300 each (for a VIP ticket to Dumi Mkokstad and Betusile Mcinga’s show) at Computicket or Artscape Dial-a-Seat on 021 421 7695. For more information visit www.artscape.co.za.