Arsene Wenger refused to end speculation over his Arsenal future as his side finished outside the Premier League’s top four for the first time in 21 years on Sunday but admitted the uncertainty had affected his players. Wenger’s side beat Everton 3-1 but victories for Liverpool and Manchester City on the final day of the Premier League campaign meant they finished fifth with 75 points and will have no Champions League football next season. Once again some fans inside the Emirates Stadium held up placards calling for Wenger to step down, as well as some criticising American majority shareholder Stan Kroenke. Wenger, who took over in 1996 and won three Premier League titles for the north London club, the last in 2004, and six FA Cups is out of contract at the end of the season. He said his future would be decided after next week’s FA Cup final against Chelsea and that his loyalty could not be questioned, adding that he had turned down “every club in the world” to stay at Arsenal for 21 years. The 67-year-old Frenchman said the atmosphere at the club was a contributory factor in his side’s failure to finish in the top four, which means they will play in the Europa League. “Of course you want to avoid this drama,” he said. “I’m experienced enough to deal with it but it was a big handicap for the team because they played in a very hostile environment. More than ever we had to stick together and be strong because it’s been very difficult for us.” Wenger appeared to criticise the club’s fans who have been split between those loyal to him and those who feel he should leave. “This group of players are remarkable and deserved to be supported in a different way,” he said. “It is annoying (to miss out) but we had a spell during the season that was difficult and it was difficult for me in my personal situation. We were playing in a hostile environment. “The players came back stronger in the last two months and I’m very proud of them for doing that.” Goals by Hector Bellerin, Alexis Sanchez and Aaron Ramsey sealed victory for Arsenal yesterday but they now have a defensive headache for next week’s Wembley final against Chelsea. Laurent Koscielny was sent off for a bad tackle on Enner Valencia while fellow defender Gabriel suffered a knee injury. Liverpool ensured a return to the Champions League by beating relegated Middlesbrough, although they will have to play in a qualifying round after finishing fourth in the Premier League, two points behind Manchester City. Needing a win to make sure of a return to Europe’s premier club competition, Juergen Klopp’s side looked edgy early on but the tension was lifted just before halftime when Dutchman Georgino Wijnaldum scored from a clever pass by Roberto Firmino. In the second half Philippe Coutinho curled in a direct free kick and Adam Lallana added a third goal. Middlesbrough, who thought they should have had a penalty with the score at 0-0, finished as the lowest Premier League scorers this season with 27 goals. Klopp praised “an outstanding job” by his players in reaching the Champions League for only the second time in eight seasons. “We had a lot of injuries and played without a lot of key players,” he told Sky Sports. “To be ahead of Arsenal and Manchester United is a really hard job. “We are Liverpool, we have to deliver but we have to improve and we will.” Stamford Bridge erupted in celebration as departing Chelsea captain John Terry lifted the Premier League trophy in Antonio Conte’s record-breaking first season in charge, but the carnival atmosphere had a bitter-sweet edge. Terry, 22 years at the club and 13 as captain, started the final league game of the season and wept as fans sang his name after unfurling banners describing him as “captain, leader, legend”. In a piece of sentimental theatre, Conte substituted Terry with his successor as captain Gary Cahill in the 26th minute – his shirt number – of the 5-1 win over Sunderland and the emotional 36-year-old hugged team mates who formed a guard of honour as he left the pitch to a standing ovation. Terry, who may earn a last run-out for the club he joined as a 14-year-old schoolboy at the FA Cup final at Wembley next Saturday, merited a supplement in the match programme handed out for free at the ground. He has made 717 appearances for Chelsea. “Thank you will never be enough but I will be coming back here one day and I love you all from the bottom of my heart,” Terry said, his voice cracking. He then hugged Conte and passed the microphone. “He’s been fantastic and very important for me and the players,” Conte said while Cahill called him “the best centre half in Premier League history”. Harry Kane won the Premier League Golden Boot for the second successive year after scoring a second hat- trick in four days as Tottenham thrashed relegated Hull City 7-1 on Sunday. Paul Pogba set up one goal and scored another as Manchester United beat Crystal Palace 2-0 at Old Trafford in their final Premier League game of the season on Sunday. Pogba played in Josh Harrop with a curling through ball in the 15th minute and the 21-year-old cut in from the left to give United the lead with a powerful shot and mark his senior debut with a goal. Pogba doubled United’s lead minutes later after Jesse Lingard drove at Palace’s defence before playing a square pass that the Frenchman slotted home after a slip by Joel Ward.