Afrika, who now works in admin for the De Zalze estate, used to work for the Thorburn security company on the estate at the time of the murders. Most of the cross-examination could be described as a tennis match with Combrink repeatedly volleying questions regarding the security and Afrika’s patrol routes, but in moments of clear frustration Afrika kept his cool and answered the questions to the best of his ability. Combrink inquired about the routes that Afrika would take and if weather would have an impact on the security of the estate. Afrika explained that sometimes the alarm system would be tripped by a frog or branch at times, but that then they would be picked up in the control room, and he would have to be dispatched to the area that the alarm went off. Afrika also explained that says that there was fixed and motionary camera on the estate and at the camera points he would radio to the control room to ask if they could see him. After testing the cameras he would go to the control room and view the footage there. Afrika said each disturbance in a security zone on the estate would make him physically walk along the estate from one zone to the next. Afrika also highlighted what he called a bloodhound patrol – which is when he physically would go to marked points around the estate that he was patrolling and have to log in that he was at that zone within the De Zalze estate. He also repeatedly reiterated that while on duty on the night of the murders, there was no alarm that went off, otherwise he would have been dispatched to the area to check out the disturbance. Afrika says that his 5 rounds on the estate consist of 3 car patrols and 2 inspections. Each car patrol takes roughly an hour and that during an inspection, he would physically walk along each designated zone within the estate that he would patrol. Combrink readout that there was in fact 3 alarms that went off in the night of the murders according to the security notes of the night of the murders, but Afrika states that he was not told about them. He repeated that if an alarm was set off, he would have been dispatched to the area. Cape Argus