Cape Town - UCT has reversed the decision to grant a concession to students to miss a class test, scheduled for the same time as the Rocking the Daisies music festival if they had booked tickets well in advance. A screenshot of a recent notification sent out by Dr Tom Angier of the philosophy department read: “Owing to the unusual term structure this year, there is a clash between the second test on October 6 and Rocking the Daisies. “If you can supply evidence of having booked the festival well in advance, you will be excused attendance at the test and your other coursework will count more towards your final result.” The Black Academic Caucus (BAC) had labelled this a “flagrant abuse of the concession system”. UCT spokesperson Elijah Moholola said the acting dean of the Faculty of Humanities, Associate Professor Harry Garuba, and the faculty executive, has asked course conveners to review and retract any decision to grant concessions to students based on the fact that they had purchased tickets for a music festival. Also read: Uproar over UCT concession to miss test for Rocking the Daisies “He has also asked course conveners to ensure that all concessions granted comply with university policy,” Moholola said The Senate executive committee chaired by Vice-Chancellor Max Price, met on Monday and agreed that the deputy vice-chancellor (DVC) responsible for the faculties would consult urgently with all faculty deans to develop a set of criteria to guide course conveners in the exercise of their discretion. “The decision is based on the resolution adopted by the SEC that attendance at a music event does not amount to ‘good cause’ for an academic concession, and that the decision by the course convener raised concerns about fairness, consistency and equity across the system,” Moholola said. Meanwhile a student who was initially denied a concession after she experienced a traumatic event and struggled with post-traumatic stress disorder and depression, says she felt vindicated by UCT’s decision. In the same department last year Busi Mkhumbuzi was refused her duly performed (DP), despite presenting evidence of a medical condition. Price later decided “on compassionate grounds” that Mkhumbuzi should be granted a DP. She was, however, charged with making racist and defamatory remarks on social media about the lecturer who denied her the concession. She says she left the university as she could not cope with PTSD and her course work. “It did not matter that I left because I was suspended three months later in a ruling that was made in my absence. I appealed the ruling. The trial has not been concluded,” she said. “White students are granted concessions to attend an elite drinking festival. I was suffering; but they were racist and continue to be. I have been vindicated.”  lisa.isaacs@inl.co.za  Cape Times