Cape Town - Cricket SA (CSA) saved itself from a loss of over half-a-billion rand when it postponed its troubled Global T20 tournament on Tuesday. CSA interim CEO Thabang Moroe said Tuesday they were set to lose between R82 million and R109 million every year for the next five years if it went ahead with the tournament, which was dramatically postponed. But CSA could still find itself in a financial mess if players demand compensation for having signed contracts. Tony Irish, chief executive of the SA Cricketers Association (the players’ union), said the body would have to carefully assess what compensation was due to the players. “They have all signed contracts and made the various arrangements. ‘‘Players have given up other opportunities to participate in the Global T20 League. ‘‘There is a whole range of reasons why the players need to be compensated,” Irish said. “What does a postponement actually mean? What are the chances of the tournament actually going ahead next year? ‘‘There are a lot of issues in terms of players having confidence in regard to the league getting off the ground after this.” Also read: T20 Global League postponed to next year CSA may also establish a formal inquiry into the conduct of its former CEO, Haroon Lorgat, after the organisation’s board of directors cited a lack of detailed information for its decision to postpone the competition for one year. Moroe said on Tuesday the board had not been kept “fully appraised” about preparations for the competition that was due to start on November 3. Lorgat was very much at the forefront of establishing the league until he “parted ways” with CSA two weeks ago. Following a hastily arranged teleconference on Tuesday morning, CSA postponed its much-hyped T20 tournament until 2018. “The board takes full responsibility in terms of everything that’s happened, because the board took its trust and put it in the hands of a few individuals,” said Moroe. “Obviously not all the information that the board needed to have in order for the board to be comfortable to continue with this league up to this stage was forthcoming and some of it is still not forthcoming. “It only makes sense for the board to agree to postpone this league and to look into the matters of this league as well as CSA and come out with facts and a way forward.” Moroe said that the establishment of an inquiry was an option open to the board - “it’s still early stages” - but if that occurred he hoped to have it wrapped up within a month. Moroe said the cost implications of going ahead with the tournament had worsened since he said last Friday that the operating model for the event was “watertight.” “We are still very confident with our model, but for it to work it needs to have money supporting it and that money cannot be coming from Cricket SA alone,” said Moroe. “If you have a model that says I need ‘X-amount from broadcasters and X-amount from sponsorship’ if any of it changes, it automatically forces you to go back and relook at your model. ‘‘You can’t keep reworking the model to a point where now CSA is hurting . “As far as the board is concerned it becomes reckless trading. The model itself is fine, but it needs to be supported by money coming from outside CSA.” A significant portion of those funds was to come from the broadcast deal which Lorgat failed to sign and which hastened his exit from the federation. Lorgat had on a number of occasions claimed that a broadcast deal was close to being agreed. Read more: CSA may hold inquiry into Lorgat’s conduct on #T20GL Some of the owners were disappointed by the decision to postpone the tournament. “They feel that this league could still continue this year. When we take a decision like this we have to make sure it’s a decision that CSA can live with. ‘‘Having said that, we must consider everyone involved, not just the owners,” said Moroe. Meanwhile staff, including the T20GL’s tournament director, Russell Adams, will remain in position, and will continue the task of setting up the league. Cape Times