The country's top musical talent, including Cassper Nyovest, Shekinah, Timo ODV, and international acts like British DJ Snakehips and American rapper Joey Badass, enthralled thousands to this year’s pay-off line "Play hard, tread lightly', referring to the seasonal flowers at 
the event just outside 
Darling. Over four days at the Cloof Wine Estate, crowds were entertained with comedy, art, music and film at a number of  stages and venues. In addition to the performers, short films at the Short and Sweet cinema tent, yoga and TedX talks were also on offer. British DJ Snakehips said he was thrilled to be performing. “I have always wanted to come to South Africa, so it is beautiful to be here,” he said. Shekinah had fans singing along to favourites such as Back to the Beach. But earlier said she'd be performing as many new songs as she could to get fans familiar with them, too. She recently released a new album, Rose Gold, but this is her first Daisies. “It is my first time doing the festival and it was amazing, the fans were great,” she said. Cape Town favourite, rapper Youngsta, performed at the festival for the fourth time but said he still felt the same excitement and nerves. “I feel like every year they always add something different that was not here last year. “I am excited to entertain this amazing crowd,” he said. The rapper said some of his personal highlights this year were performing in both Australia and Europe. “Going overseas for rap music is something I have always wanted to do and I never thought it would happen for me,” he said. Stellenbosch student, Leonardine De Villiers, celebrated her birthday at the festival. De Villiers said: “I had an awesome time. It was my first time attending and it was unlike anything I have experienced before.” Rapper Patty Monroe graced the trap house stage at the festival for the first time. She said: “It is my first time and it's amazing - next level. I cannot wait to experience it even more. It's a good time to be alive.” Monroe released her debut album Malatjie earlier this year. About her success as a hip hop artist she said: “A lot of people are good at a lot of things what makes the difference is the time you put into it.”