Veterans of the party met the current leadership, represented by Faiez Jacobs, at Community House in Salt River as the party’s stalwarts prepare for a national consultative conference (NCC) to be held from November 17-19. ANC stalwart Goolam Aboobaker said there was strong support for the consultative conference. “They viewed a NCC well placed to address the crisis brought on by corruption, a stagnant economy that exacerbated poverty, inequality and unemployment, which contributed to moral decay in family values, sexual violence against children and women, and widespread unrest,” he said. “We agreed that an NCC would lead to the drawing up of a programme for social renewal, economic growth and prosperity,” said Aboobaker. While Jacobs said it was a fruitful engagement, his position is less strident regarding what some call a deep-set rot in South Africa’s oldest party. “We respect the views of the stalwarts  In the Western Cape we are working hard to introduce a minimum programme. ‘‘This is not about the personality and leadership programme. Rather we are saying the ANC must have a people’s contract to connect with people, to deal with corruption, to emphasise effective leadership and to support the needs of the people first,” he said. Jacobs agreed the leadership faced challenges, but stood firm in supporting the ANC under President Jacob Zuma - an issue where the stalwarts differ with the Western Cape leaders. Instead, the stalwarts contend in a draft resolution from the meeting “that the continued presidency of Zuma is shameful and a discredit to South Africa”. Further, Zuma’s presidency had brought the “ANC into grave disrepute, and is an obstacle to the progress towards the future the veterans of the Struggle fought for”. Aboobaker mentioned that Saturday’s turnout included more than 60 attendees from all racial groups as well as young and old activists. “The discussion was very open and dealt with a wide range of issues. They raised issues of state capture and corruption, and the need for electoral reform both in the constitution - constituency based MPs - and in the ANC. “An example is the principle of ‘one member, one vote’ to elect the ANC president, and strengthening the cabinet’s accountability to Parliament. "Besides civil society organisations and NGOs, all the alliance structures (Sanco, SACP, ANC and Cosatu) were represented,” he added. Jacobs said the ANC needed to ensure internal democracy underpinned the processes taking place in branches. “We need to ensure we take branches and delegates to the NCC so they’re educated about choosing the correct leadership. ‘‘Our priority, whatever leadership the Western Cape supports, is that we remain true to the people,” he said.  lonwabo.marele@inl.co.za 