Mbalula attended a meeting with members of the community to report back on his immediate plans to be rolled out to combat crime. When the Police Ministry released crime statistics in Parliament this week, Nyanga was listed as a hot spot where the most murders - 281 - were reported in the country in 2016/17. Mbalula also informed residents that “notorious criminals” in Marikana informal settlement had been arrested. To applause, Mbalula told about 500 residents that 100 additional police personnel were being deployed, bringing the total to 347. He said there would be a dedicated specialised unit of the Tactical Response Team based in Nyanga. And in the foreseeable future, police would not have to take public transport when they go to work as there would be designated transport for them. “The community of Nyanga has been pleading for help and intervention from the government in their fight against crime. "We know we have a problem in Nyanga. Police management’s programme of action must be seen and it must have targets,” Mbalula pointed out. “An additional police station had been one of the priorities listed by the community. We are going to build one, which will be up and running soon to service their needs,” the minister said. “The added resources and the establishment of TRT units are among the many immediate steps to be taken to address these challenges that confront us,” Mbalula said. He added that police stations should hold imbizos every month to discuss residents’ concerns. “We need to have measurable outcomes, so that we are accountable,” he said. One resident, Athini Ngantoni, said there were signs that crime was decreasing in Nyanga as a result of the increased police visibility. “The Marikana shootings have woken up the police, who are more visible everywhere. Now all we need is to close down the shebeens, because they are the source of stabbings, shootings and rapes,” said Ngantoni. Provincial police commissioner Lieutenant-General Khombinkosi Jula said it was “not all doom and gloom” in Nyanga, but he conceded that “one murder is a murder too many”. “This thing of Nyanga being 
the murder capital has to change,” he said.