For those who miss the days of old-fashioned FA Cup ties, with big name players embarrassed by passionate upstarts in front of a raucous crowd, Huddersfield Town's 2-1 win over Manchester United on Saturday was a true throwback. True, it was a Premier League game and promoted Huddersfield have earned the right to be a part of the elite. But this was also giant-killing act from the old school. Promoted Huddersfield smelt blood right from the start and flew into challenges, piled forward in attacks and grafted across the field against a United team who, as their manager Jose Mourinho conceded, did not appear to share that relish for the encounter. "They played with everything, aggression, desire, motivation, sacrifice and we didn't," said Mourinho. "The team that deserved to win won. Simple." His counterpart David Wagner, who has turned Huddersfield from Championship strugglers to a team that was capable of beating the 20-times title winners, also felt that the game was decided by those basic values. "I haven't thought about why Manchester United weren't at their best. They have played a lot of games and they had injury problems. It could be they are not at their freshest, but we didn't think about that," he said. "If this is our moment, we have to grab it, which is what the players did. Small Huddersfield have beaten Man Utd and it's one of the proudest moments in my managerial career." For Wagner the win over Reading in the Championship playoff final at Wembley in May remains the highlight of his almost two years in charge of the Yorkshire club. But beating Mourinho's men is surely a close second. The Terriers' last win over United was in March 1952 and in the years in which the club struggled in the lower divisions many fans could have been forgiven for thinking such a fixture might never occur again. Wagner may only arrived in Yorkshire in 2015, but he has no doubt of what Saturday's win means to the club. "I live in Huddersfield so I know a little bit how huge this result is for this town, for the supporters, for the chairman, for the board. "I am totally aware that this is a very special moment," he said. That next one is at Anfield on Saturday against his mentor and friend Juergen Klopp. Another big test for Huddersfield but one that Klopp will surely be extremely wary of. Tottenham Hotspur brutally exposed Liverpool's defensive frailties as Harry Kane plundered two more goals in his side's 4-1 romp at Wembley yesterday. In front of 80 000 fans, the biggest ever Premier League attendance, Kane took his league tally to eight for the season with the first and fourth goals in a clinical Spurs display. Son Heung-min and Dele Alli were also on target for the impressive hosts, who led 3-1 at the break after a breathless first half, while Mohamed Salah's reply had briefly given Juergen Klopp's Liverpool side hope. Tottenham's fourth consecutive victory, and first in the Premier League against Liverpool for five years, put them level on 20 points with second-placed Manchester United and five behind rampant leaders Manchester City. Liverpool dropped to ninth on 13 points and have conceded 16 goals – their highest total after nine games since 1964. "The whole game the whole result was all our fault – Tottenham were good, they needed to be good, but we made it much too easy for them," said Klopp, who reacted by hauling off hapless defender Dejan Lovren after 31 minutes. "It is 100% my responsibility. I don't coach this type of defending." It was the home side who began in razor-sharp fashion in front of watching Argentina great Diego Maradona though, albeit aided by a porous Liverpool rearguard. In the fourth minute, Spurs defender Kieran Trippier played Kane into acres of space and the England striker cleverly dinked the ball around goalkeeper Simon Mignolet with his right foot before guiding a shot home with his left. Tottenham were two goals up inside 12 minutes, this time Lovren inexplicably failed to cut out Spurs keeper Hugo Lloris's long goal kick to allow Kane to advance and calmly square for Son to stroke the ball home left-footed. Liverpool's defence parted again to allow Son in on goal soon afterwards but his fierce effort struck the crossbar. Tottenham's defence dozed off in the 24th minute, enabling Salah to get between them and latch on to Jordan Henderson's pass. With Lloris slow to narrow the angle, the Egyptian scuffed his shot in off the post. Christian Eriksen floated in a free kick which Joel Matip could only head tamely straight to Alli who volleyed past Mignolet from inside the area. In the 56th minute, Mignolet flapped at Trippier's inswinging free kick, Jan Vertonghen's shot was cleared off the line by Roberto Firmino but it fell to the lurking Kane who steadied himself before drilling into the corner. Meanwhile, Everton dropped into the bottom three of the Premier League after Arsenal came from a goal down to earn an emphatic 5-2 victory at Goodison Park yesterday, their first away win of the season. There was an air of quiet, depressed resignation throughout much of the game from the Everton fans but the now familiar boos rang out at the end and the future of Dutch coach Ronald Koeman looks precarious. "I told the players I believe in them, in their commitment. The decision is not in my hands," Koeman said after the game. It all started so well for the hosts as Wayne Rooney curled  a stunning 12th-minute opener into the net to give his side the lead – the strike coming almost 15 years to the day since a 16-year-old Rooney announced himself to the world with a remarkably similar goal against the same opposition. Despite trailing, Arsenal dominated from then on, mustering 17 shots on goal in the first half alone, one of which was Nacho Monreal's equaliser from close range five minutes before the break. Arsenal continued on the front foot after the interval and took the lead in the 53rd minute via the head of Mesut Ozil – the German flicking in a perfectly weighted cross from the excellent Alexis Sanchez. Everton midfielder Idrissa Gueye was dismissed 15 minutes later after collecting a second yellow card, before a goal from Alexandre Lacazette in the 74th minute and late strikes from Aaron Ramsey and Sanchez, the latter a fine individual effort, either side of an Oumar Niasse consolation. Arsenal move up to fifth with the win and they will be hugely encouraged by the impressive return to fitness and form of Ozil and the way he combined with Sanchez and Lacazette.