Two police officers fell victims of a crime when they were held at gunpoint and one of them robbed of his personal belongings in an act police Minister Fikile Mbalula said undermined the authority of state. The officers, a captain and a colonel stationed at Delft police station were  travelling in an unmarked police vehicle when they stopped to assist motorists who were involved in an accident on the N2 near Borcherds Quarry Nyanga on Tuesday. Police spokesperson FC Van Wyk said two unidentified men both armed with firearms approached the  scene and held the officers and motorists at gunpoint. “The suspects then robbed the Colonel of his wallet, appointment card and a state cellular telephone. The Captain was not robbed. Both of them were unarmed. The suspects also robbed the other victims of the accident scene and fled on foot between the nearby shacks. “Property of the other victims cannot be confirmed at this stage. No shots were fired and no injuries were reported. An armed robbery case was registered for investigation,” said Van Wyk. The Police Ministry said: “The responsibility of the police is to keep our communities safe. It cannot be the same communities who rob the police. This kind of act undermines the authority of the state and must never be tolerated.”The incident came a day after five men armed with pangas and knives attacked a group of cyclists off their bicycles while riding  on Jan Smuts Drive near Langa on Sunday. Meanwhile the Hawks’ National Bureau for Illegal Firearms Control and Priority Violent Crime (NBIFCPVC) has arrested a police Sergeant aged 36 and his 22 year old accomplice following a business robbery  in  Elsies River on Monday. The two had  allegedly robbed the store of  valuables including cigarettes and undisclosed amount of cash before they fled the scene on foot. One suspect was apprehended shortly afterwards within the vicinity and a police issued firearm was found in his possession.The hawks say follow-up investigations led to the arrest of the police sergeant who turned up at Delft police station in the afternoon to report that his firearm had been stolen during a burglary at his house.  siyavuya.mzantsi@inl.co.za  Cape Times