The ANC and ACDP on Wednesday took another opportunity at a standing committee meeting on education to slam officials and MEC Debbie Schäfer for the proposal to sell alcohol at events at schools. At the meeting, the department’s annual report for the 2016/17 financial year was scrutinised in the Western Cape Legislature. Theo Olivier, ANC MPL, said it appeared that the provincial authorities do not understand the complex challenges of alcohol abuse in schools. The  Western Cape Provincial School Education Amendment Bill has been approved by cabinet. Sections of the Bill will allow the sale and use of alcohol on school grounds under strict conditions and with the permission of the principal and head of department. Schäfer in June said the intention of the Bill was to allow the sale of alcohol at functions and allow it with certain conditions. She also said schools rent out their halls to make extra revenue, which would help them to act within limits. Olivier said there were better ways of generating revenue. “The department has continuously complained about social problems that are hampering the education system in the province. Now they allow the sale of alcohol at schools. There will be chaos. People are going to come with their cases of beers and from there the fights and brawls will continue. You are going to turn our schools into shebeens. Where is the good in that?” Ferlon Christians, ACDP leader, said:“Alcohol abuse is a big problem in our black and coloured townships. It is a massive challenge. In our poor areas, we will have fights as soon as people start drinking. We can’t afford trouble at poorer schools which already have problems,” he said. Brian Schreuder, head of the department, said it was a political matter. “The understanding is that there are extremes in place and the Bill is there to regulate the use and sale of alcohol at school premises. Alcohol use (by pupils) at school will be banned. We also need to remember that there are conditions before such a licence would be granted,” he said. The Bill has received the green light from the provincial cabinet, but another consultation process is to take place.  jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus