Roegshanda Pascoe, chairperson of the Manenberg Crisis Forum, said: “We have so many other Chanelles still in our community. We need to unite so that we can stop this from going on. “I am tired of being shocked when a murder has already taken place,” she said. Community leader Marwaan Hanslo urged residents to continue demanding peace. “We have come so far. Do not let it end here. We cannot let a handful of gangsters rule our community. Enough is enough,” he said. Meanwhile, the two men accused of the murder and rape of Chanelle will apply for bail next month. The duo, Carlo de Kock and Stanton Mano, made a brief first appearance in the Wynberg Magistrate’s Court yesterday morning after the case was moved from Athlone Magistrate’s Court. According to information received, the case was moved to the Wynberg Magistrate’s Court because of the rape charge being added and sexual offences against minors are not dealt with at the Athlone Magistrate’s Court. De Kock, who is McCrawl’s uncle, and Mano both opted for Legal Aid and will return to the dock on November 22 for a formal bail application. The State prosecutor indicated that they would oppose bail in the matter. Supporters, calling for no bail and for justice, chanted outside the Athlone Magistrate’s Court early yesterday morning. When it was confirmed the case was being moved, they hastily left to get to Wynberg in time. The supporters, after spotting the police van transporting the two accused, started attacking the vehicle, threatening the duo. A police source confirmed traces of human blood were found in a wheelie bin and a backyard dwelling in Audrey Court, Manenberg. During last night's vigil for Chanelle, affectionately known as Nellie, residents marched to the site where her body was found. The school she attended, Edendale Primary School, will hold a memorial service at the Roman Catholic Church in Manenberg Avenue at 10.30am. Chanelle was described by a resident as one who “enjoyed spiritual dancing and always had a smile on her face”. The family has requested assistance with funeral arrangements to lay Chanelle to rest. Anyone able to assist can contact Keano Smith on 071 811 5723. Cape Times