The City of Cape Town is lowering water pressure in high-lying areas as part of its efforts to stretch water supplies across the city. This is part of the City’s continuous efforts to manage the current drought crisis across the province. This is according to Mayco member for Waste Services Xanthea Limberg after Capri Village residents in Noordhoek complained that their water was switched off over the weekend. Limberg said it was important to note that the City supplies enough water to the Noordhoek area, but “if the demand is too high, then those in high-lying areas or high-lying properties will experience some outages”. Limberg confirm that water pressure reduction measures took place in Capri Village on Saturday. Resident Jocelyn Abrahams said the City of Cape Town never informed them of the outages and there was no explanation when she tried to call. “It would have been better if we were told so that we can prepare. What the City did was inconvenient,” said Abrahams. Limberg said: “In line with Level 5 water restrictions, water pressure is being lowered further to the point where supply interruptions in higher-lying areas of the City’s supply zones will be experienced for short periods during the day.” She said residents were advised that “supply interruptions are now more likely due to intensified water pressure reduction measures”. Limberg said for residents to avoid any inconveniences they should “keep an emergency water supply on hand for drinking and basic hygiene (and) therefore we urge residents to keep five liters of water on hand, as an emergency supply for when they are affected”. “Our aim with pressure management is to adjust our system so that as many people as possible are supplied at as low a pressure as possible. "As we have never had to lower pressure to this level, reaching this equilibrium will require an element of trial and error,” she said. Unfortunately lowering water pressure “does not allow for the City to be able to predict an accurate schedule of exactly when the lower pressure or outages will occur”. She said residents in lower-lying areas should reduce usage to assist outages at the higher-lying areas.