As said in previous letters – desperate times call for desperate measures. The controversial technology of cloudseeding, labelled "climate capture" by environmentalists, seems to have established its place with a growing number of governments. The CIA used it in the Vietnam War to enhance rainfall in the monsoon seasons with 2 300 cloudseeding missions termed "Project Popeye", turning the land below into a quagmire of impassable mud that rendered the Viet Cong military vehicles inoperable. The UN World Meteorological Organisation said at least 26 governments were conducting weather altering experiments by 2000. South Africa developed its own rainfall enhancement technology under various organisations and a company called CloudQuest in Nelspruit under Graeme Mather from 1971, with cloudseeding experiments in the Bethlehem, Vaal Dam Catchment area. In 1990 weather modification research projects fell under the National Precipitation Research Programme until 1995. In that year as an emergency response to the drought in Tzaneen, the Limpopo government requested cloudseeding over the Tzaneen area. This culminated in the South African Rainfall Enhancement Programme (Sarep) in 1997. Due to ostensible lack of funding, the project lost momentum. The technology established its merits when a cash prize of $150 000 was awarded by United Arab Emirates to SA/SA Weather Service for the cloudseeding technology developed by them. Rain improvement figures of 30% have been claimed by that government. Using radar-based storm climatology software known as Titan (Thunderstorm Identification Tracking Analysis and Nowcasting) the Sarep experiments in Limpopo in 2000 and 2001 established a rainfall increase of about 10% at a cost of R0.04c/cubic meter! In light of the current crisis, it would be interesting to know what local government's stated position is on this technology. If Limpopo's government had the initiative to request cloudseeding in the 1995 Tzaneen drought, what's stopping you DA? Clive Redman Bergvliet