Western Province clinched their first Currie Cup title since 2014 with a hard-fought 33-21 victory over the Sharks in the final at Kings Park in Durban on Saturday afternoon.
 
Province outscored the hosts four tries to two, and were deserved winners on the day.
 
The visiting pack of forwards laid the foundation for victory for coach John Dobson’s team, as WP dominated the scrums and won the gainline battle.
 
It was the Sharks, though, who were quickest out of the blocks. Powerful centre Marius Louw burst through an attempted tackle by Cobus Wiese and put veteran Odwa Ndungane over in the corner in the fourth minute.
 
Things looked ominous for Province, but just five minutes later Huw Jones finished smartly following a five-metre scrum to level the scores at 7-7.
 
The Sharks, though, took control as flyhalf Curwin Bosch kicked a penalty, and No 8 Daniel du Preez barged his way over after relentless pressure by the home team.
 
Suddenly it was 15-7 to the Sharks, and it was a long road back for WP.
 
While Robert du Preez responded with a three-pointer, Bosch showed his class by slotting a penalty and then a long-range drop goal from nearly 50 metres out to put the Sharks 21-10 up after 32 minutes.
 
But a crucial moment just before halftime brought WP back into the game. Fullback Damian Willemse came into the line and stepped out of a rush tackle from Kobus van Wyk to open up the space for Dillyn Leyds to dive over in the corner.
 
Province were right back in the mix at 21-15 down at the break, and had the momentum going into the second half.
 
But a moment of brilliance by Nizaam Carr was the turning point that resulted in Province controlling the second half.
 
From a moving scrum, the WP No 8 went down the blindside and produced a superb offload in the tackle to Wiese, who hurtled over for the try in the 50th minute.
 
And just four minutes later, wing Seabelo Senatla, from a standing start, drew the defence in and found Jones, who ran in his second try of the day.
 
Du Preez kicked two more penalties 10 minutes apart, and the Province defence held on to claim the title.
 
Scorers Sharks: Tries: Odwa Ndungane, Daniel du Preez. Conversions: Curwin Bosch (1). Penalties: Bosch (2). Drop Goal: Bosch (1). Western Province: Tries: Huw Jones (2), Dillyn Leyds, Cobus Wiese. Conversions: Robert du Preez (2). Penalties: Du Preez (3). African News Agency