CAPE TOWN - Former Finance Minister, Pravin Gordhan said on Tuesday that South Africa is heading towards the same fate as Venezuela. South Africa's potential economic and political crisis was declared by Gordhan at the Independent Financial Advisers symposium in Sandton, Gauteng. When probed about whether South Africa could face similar conditions as the South American country, his response was: "I don't think we'll get there''. "But to prevent a Venezuela we have to become active citizens. If you are a South African you should be involved to ensure that we don’t get to Venezuela. All of us have to send a clear message to the kleptocrats that that was not what we wanted", added Gordhan. Nene Gordhan further spoke out on his predecessor former finance minister, Nhlanhla Nene. The candid Gordhan said that Nhlanhla Nene's dismissal ''under false pretenses'' marked economic history in South Africa. Nene was dismissed from Cabinet by Zuma on December, 9 2015. "The conditions were not for economic growth or for a better fiscal framework, but (to) continuously create conditions that will enable 'you know who' to loot from state coffers", said Gordhan. He implied that this move by Zuma was orchestrated to get "certain actors'' into power and subsequently, gain control of critical state organs. Zwane Gordhan further criticised the detachment of government from the business sector and set his sights on Mineral Resource Minister Mosebenzi Zwane for criticism. He said when he was in cabinet, care was taken to bring labour, business and government together. "But Zwane and the mining industry are not going to get along,” he said. “That is because he (Zwane) has a certain agenda for this country, and that agenda is not good for South Africa", said Gordhan. Similarly, Gordhan said in August this year that South Africa's future lies in the hands of active citizens. This comes after Gordhan spoke at the Gandhi Lecture in Mountain Rise, Pietermaritzburg. He urged citizens to ensure that state coffers are not looted by individuals with personal motives. "It is up to all of us to say South Africa is not for sale, and that regardless of how heavy the brown envelope is we will not allow our country to be taken over", Gordhan said to applause and cheers from the audience. READ ALSO: SA is not for sale, says #PravinGordhan - BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE