During a press briefing yesterday, CPUT management said it was confident students would finish this year’s work. Private security guards remained on high alert, however, at the CPUT Bellville campus yesterday. This followed unrest which saw guards using stun grenades to disperse a group of protesting students who the university said had attempted to storm the Bellville campus library on Wednesday. On Monday, an office at the Old Education building on the campus was set alight. The institution’s Research Directorate offices in Bellville were closed after a suspected arson attack. CPUT acting vice-chancellor Chris Nhlapo said no students were targeted when searches were carried out at residences, leading to the discovery of petrol bombs, rubber bullets and drugs last week. “We have been overwhelmed by students saying they want the university to (intervene) because they cannot actually sleep because of a number of things: because of illicit drugs, because of alcohol abuse. As an institution we are obliged to look into that,” he said. Asked about the decision to place barbed-wire fencing around the perimeter of the Cape Town campus, Nhlapo said: “Our key challenge with the Cape Town campus is that it is open. "It makes it very difficult for us to provide safety and security for our staff and property. For us to be able to control access, we will have to put that particular aspect of a barbed wire.” He said the crises were perpetuated by what he described as a small, militant group of students and insourced staff who used “sheer intimidatory tactics, brute force, violence and arson”, pointing its origin to July. “The issue is now largely resolved apart from a faction of insourced workers who are aligned to protesting students.” Hundreds of students from UCT and CPUT marched to Parliament on Wednesday to demand answers on when President Jacob Zuma would release the fees commision report as Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba delivered his mid-term budget speech. Nhlapo said the report would assist in planning for next year. Octavia Mkhabela, director in the office of the vice-chancellor, said: “There is a lot that is still hanging in the air. The issue of what that report contains is not in our hands. “We cannot predict what reaction is going to be. When we said we are confident we will finish the academic year, we were  in the scenario we currently face.”