Zwane would not back down on his relationship with the family, saying he was free to visit their  Saxonwold home because it was in South Africa. “My relationship with the Guptas is at (a) professional level and I have not benefited from that relationship.” He made the comments when he appeared before the mineral resources committee, one of five tasked to hold accountable cabinet ministers, implicated in the “leaked” e-mails alleging state capture. “I meet many business people as I do my work. It is the same with this family,” he said. “I am really asking myself, honourable members, why this family why this committee just has interest in my meeting with just one family?” Zwane asked. The minister said if anybody has a problem with the Guptas, they should inform him. “I can only tell this portfolio committee that if there is a need to meet them tomorrow I will meet them publicly anywhere so that you are aware that I have no issue unless there is an issue that changes my view,” Zwane said. Earlier, Zwane told the committee he was a bit surprised when he was summoned to the meeting when he had made himself available when the committee met. He said the question of state capture has been tabled before legal forums by various individuals, including MPs in the mineral resources committee. He was referring to the pending court case and a probe by Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane and Parliament’s registrar of interests. “When I got this invitation to answer on state capture I asked myself which structure among all of these is to take precedence. “Are honourable members in this committee having something urgent or have we lost faith in our legal structures or do we really want to play politics or assassinate individuals’ characters in public,” Zwane said. He insisted he had always indicated his willingness to co-operate with all structures to make sure the matter was laid to rest. “I must ask: am I being investigated so that I know? If so, who is a complainant so that we deal with facts and leave fiction and rumour.” He complained bitterly that the summons was vague and dealt with state capture in broad terms. “I may not be able to answer all your questions that may prejudice me. If I do so, I’m not doing it so that I don’t want to answer; it is that you put me in a position I have to deal with matters we all know are before court so I reserve my rights to those matters that are subject of court.” Committee chairperson Zet Luzipo said they were not aware of parallel processes in which the matter was being probed, particularly those instituted by committee members. “Based on the letter we have, we have to go as per the directive. This is what the exercise is all about,.” Quizzed about his CV that was apparently handed to the Guptas prior to his appointment, Zwane said the appointment of ministers was the responsibility of President Jacob Zuma. “When I was appointed in 2015, the same process was followed. I’m not aware of any situation where I had to discuss my appointment,” he said. He was sarcastic when asked if he had been to Saxonwold, the Gupta homestead. “If I had money I would love to have a house there It is in South Africa,” he said. “I also want to go Stellenbosch there is somebody living there,” he said in reference to billionaire Johann Rupert.