The patrollers would be trained this week, provided with equipment including uniforms, and would work alongside the police and the City of Cape Town’s law enforcement agencies, Plato said. The formation of the neighbourhood watch comes amid tension between gangs and the patrollers in the area, which last month resulted in 24 people from both sides being killed. Suspected gangsters shot and killed 11 people aligned to the patrollers on September29, after 13 suspected criminals had been assaulted and set alight by angry community members since September12. Two people, aged 39 and 41, were arrested last week and a gun was confiscated before it was sent to a laboratory for ballistic testing to determine whether it was related to the murder of the 11. This weekend two more people were arrested during an overnight police operation in the area. A memorial service for 18 of the deceased will be held tomorrow. On Wednesday the Community Safety Department will also engage unemployed youth on how best to keep their area safe and develop their skills through further education and training colleges. In yesterday’s meeting Plato said: “Looking at the dire need, we are going to give priority to the training of the patrollers.” He said his department would engage the City of Cape Town about installing CCTV cameras and high-mast lights on the borders of Marikana. “We want to push the City into a corner and say prioritise safety and avail a portion of your budget specifically for safety,” said Plato. He said the City had not yet installed high-mast lights inside Marikana because the land was privately owned. City law enforcement director Robbie Roberts said the neighbourhood watch would enable the proper enforcement of by-laws, including preventing illegal shebeen operations. Community leader Anathi Kana welcomed Plato’s initiative. “Now that there will be a recognised neighbourhood watch we are hopeful crime will go down,” he said. Vuyo Mhaga, spokesperson for Police Minister Fikile Mbalula, said the police had worked around the clock in Philippi East and Nyanga in bringing about calm after the deaths last month. Mhaga said a suspect was arrested during the operation after being pointed out for a separate murder that occurred two weeks ago in the area.