Washington - Cyber security watchdogs and researchers
are issuing warnings over risks associated with a widely used
system for securing Wi-Fi communications after the discovery of
a flaw that could allow hackers to read information thought to
be encrypted, or infect websites with malware. An alert from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security
Computer Emergency Response Team on Monday said the flaw could
be used within range of Wi-Fi using the WPA2 protocol to hijack
private communications. It recommended installing vendor updates
on affected products, such as routers provided by Cisco Systems
Inc or Juniper Networks Inc. Belgian researchers Mathy Vanhoef and Frank Piessens of
Belgian university KU Leuven disclosed the bug in WPA2, which
secures modern Wi-Fi systems used by vendors for wireless
communications between mobile phones, laptops and other
connected devices with Internet-connected routers or hot spots. "If your device supports Wi-Fi, it is most likely affected,"
they said on the www.krackattacks.com website, which they set up
to provide technical information about the flaw and methods
hackers might use to attack vulnerable devices. It was not immediately clear how difficult it would be for
hackers to exploit the bug, or if the vulnerability has
previously been used to launch any attacks. Finnish security firm F-Secure said experts have long been
cautious about Wi-Fi's ability to withstand security challenges
of the 21st century. "But the worst part of it is that it's an issue with Wi-Fi
protocols, which means it affects practically every single
person in the world that uses Wi-Fi networks," it said on its
website. Microsoft Corp said it had released a security
update for Windows. Customers who applied the update, or had
automatic updates enabled, would already be protected, it said
in a statement emailed to Reuters. CERT New Zealand and CERT India asked users to apply
security updates. CERT NZ suggested using ethernet cables and to
connect directly into the network, when possible. "Given the complexity of updating smart devices such as
mobile phones, CERT NZ also strongly recommends disabling Wi-Fi
when it isn't required," it said in its advisory. The Wi-Fi Alliance, an industry group that represents
hundreds of Wi-Fi technology companies, said the issue "could be
resolved through a straightforward software update". The group said in a statement it had advised members to
release patches quickly and recommended that consumers quickly
install those security updates. Reuters