Experts had understood that about 200 million years ago, the largest carnivorous dinosaurs were between 3m-5m in body length. However, an international team of scientists from UCT, University of Manchester, UK, and Universidade de São Paulo, Brazil, has discovered the first evidence of an extremely large carnivorous dinosaur informally called a “mega-theropod”. Its footprints were found on an informal road near the National University of Lesotho at Roma. Detailing their discovery in a study, published in PLOS One, the team revealed that the very large, three-toed, 57cm long and 50cm wide footprints were of these huge mega-
theropods. With an estimated body length of about 9m and hip height of 2.7m, this animal would have roamed a landscape otherwise populated by much smaller carnivorous dinosaurs and a variety of herbivorous and omnivorous dinosaurs. The footprints are the largest theropod trackways found in Africa for this period. They are unique with only one other site, in the Holy Cross Mountains, Poland, bearing similar aged tracks but marginally larger. Lead author on the publication and UCT post-doctoral fellow Lara Sciscio said: “These giant mega-theropod tracks have been assigned a new species name (ambrokholohali). "This name was, in part, derived in honour of Emeritus Professor David Ambrose for his detailed recording of the trace fossil heritage in the Roma Valley, Lesotho. "In trying to relocate one of Professor Ambrose’s sites, we discovered the newly exposed mega-theropod tracks reported in the article.” Theropod dinosaurs (meaning “beast-footed”) were some of the main bipedal (walking with just two legs) predators during the "Age of Dinosaurs". They include the largest terrestrial carnivores, like the Tyrannosaurus rex, to have lived in this time. Recent studies have shown that birds are the descendants of small non-flying theropods. In the research paper, the authors say that in southern Africa, theropod body fossils are extremely rare, and their findings suggests an unappreciated degree of diversity of theropods active during this time. “Ecological incentives to increase body size may be related to rapid changes in both climate and predator-prey dynamics at the outset of the Jurassic, with the expansion of dinosaurian niche space accommodating a range of novel strategies not possible prior to the TJB (The Triassic-Jurassic Boundary is one of the major extinction events, profoundly affecting life on land and in the oceans),” the authors said.