For example, why do our people kill each other? Why do people use drugs, when we are warned about the devastating consequences? Why should the majority of people live in fear, while the minority rule with their weapons? I grew up in Wynberg until I was 10 years old, then I moved to Manenberg. I never really wanted to be there in the first place. I liked visiting my family there, but that’s all. I never really liked the idea of living there, because I thought the kids were naughty. Once I started living there, and attended school there, I thought it unusual for school to be affected by what goes on outside of its premises, and our lives to be disrupted by gangsters. I wasn’t really aware of the dangers people face every day That going outside at night would be a problem, because you could be robbed, assaulted or shot. Even going outside in broad daylight was an issue, because of the shooting. When I was younger and people said "there was shooting", I always thought that perhaps they were shooting a movie, until I heard gunshots one night. I know now that for the children in Manenberg, their surroundings influence their lives and attitudes. They grow up in destruction, poverty and fear. They fear being shot, not fitting in with their peers, so it seems to be top priority to be in a gang rather than study and get a good job. I’m not saying this represents all the children in Manenberg. Many of us are positive about making a change in our lives and studying. Most kids are dedicated to a bright future and want to study, and avoid being at home when it’s  school holidays. We try to study where it is quiet and the atmosphere is calmer or get away for a peaceful holiday, without having to hear gunshots or stay indoors for our safety. At the moment Manenberg is a war zone. Innocent people are being injured and killed. Yes, these incidents have become almost the norm and things continue to get worse. Gunshots are fired from every angle. We need Manenberg to be great. I know there are people who are trying to make a change, but do we have enough support? Why are our own people creating havoc and going to war with each other? That doesn’t sound healthy to me. Are we really our own worst enemy? Have we considered the future of the next generation? Don’t wake up when it’s too late. I encourage you to help us bring this nightmare to an end. Speak out.