Cape Town - A Cape Town IT professional stands accused of online predatory behaviour from several local women and men, some of whom have been driven to the brink of suicide. One woman says she has been harassed for seven years. Using multiple online profiles Deon Fialkov is accused of stalking several people. His modus operandi apparently includes collating several tweets from a specific target and sending the tweets to that person's boss. Several women also claim he demanded explicit pictures of themselves. With little support from authorities, some of these victims recounted their harrowing ordeal at Fialkov's hands. One woman described it as "mental rape" and says it has been "seven years from hell". Fialkov, is also an event planner, and has his own blogging site www.777productions.com. 777 is the number which is featured in many of his Twitter account handles, it appears in his email address as well as his cellphone number. Last year Fialkov made headlines when a Cape newspaper exposed him as an alleged sexual predator who targeted women on social media. "He once asked for my private parts. I declined." tweeted @nozMillionfaces. She gave Weekend Argus permission to publish her tweet. Weekend Argus is in possession of screenshots of sexually-charged messages reportedly from Fialkov's Twitter account to one of the women. The woman who described her experience with Fialkov as "mental rape" said: "The first couple of years I just ignored it. It became bad when I got married and when I was pregnant. He was relentless. "At one stage I was suicidal and I sent Deon a message on Facebook begging him to leave me alone and that he was going to cause me to commit suicide, and he only got worse." She has hired a lawyer in the hope that her ordeal would end. "Our attorney sent (Fialkov) a cease-and-desist letter detailing some of the harassment. I have never asked for this and we have only ever asked to be left alone. He stalked and harassed me whilst I was pregnant and our baby went into distress and was born three-and-a-half weeks early and she was in ICU for a week." Another woman, who has not been named for her safety, said she has been battling depression since  Fialkov started "stalking" her on Twitter in 2015.
She reported the matter to Cape Town Central Police station in March. "I spent almost two hours trying to lay a charge but the police are not equipped to deal with these kinds of cases," said the woman. She alleged Fialkov's stalking continued and this week she was taken to hospital after a suicide attempt. Another woman, fed up of the harassment and Fialkov's calls and emails to her manager, also laid a charge with Cape Town police in September.
She said SAPS called her about a month later for more information, but she hasn't heard from them since. SAPS spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana  told Weekend Argus that cyber crimes were dealt with by the Hawks. One woman recalled: “This man Deon Fialkov called my employer. He also accused me of tweeting during working hours,  which is part of my job and of using company resources. He also sent my employer screenshots of my tweets from years ago - before I even worked here." Another woman said: "I blocked him (on Facebook) and he somehow found me on Twitter and started threatening me there telling me I will lose my job and body-shaming me etc... I blocked him there too. Four of his friends tweeted me too, telling me I will pay for my tweets against Deon and that I have to watch out and my family too as they have connections to make sure I lose my job." Sheldon Cameron, who has 38 000 Twitter followers, said he blocked Fialkov after being "harassed by him". He claimed Fialkov, took words and phrases from his tweets dating as far back as 2011 and "misrepresented" them with the aim of making Cameron look like a "sexual deviant" and a "pervert". One Twitter user, who asked to remain anonymous, alleged Fialkov has been harassing him for nearly two years and said: "I fear for my life." "I went to the police last year and I was basically told there is nothing they can do about it, as my life was not in danger," he said. He claimed Fialkov contacted his bosses and attempted to get him fired over his Twitter posts. "I am scared. He seems to know what is happening in my personal life. If he can find out details of my employer which I have not posted anywhere, if he knows where I live, I just don't know what this man is capable of. I used to suffer from depression and anxiety. And I am at a point now where it is making a comeback. This situation is triggering me on a daily basis." The man said he has reported Fialkov "and all his fake accounts" to Twitter on numerous occasions. "Each time their response is the same. They find no violation of privacy. They find no evidence of harassment." Winston Mnajengwa, who uses the Twitter handle @AmBlujay said: "I was informed by a friend about a guy (Fialkov) who was harassing a lady on Twitter. I am an entrepreneur so he could not report me to anybody and I have been bullied before so I know how to handle the situation." Mnajengwa said he copied Police Minister Fikile Mbalula in one of his tweets to make him aware of Fialkov's behaviour. Also read: The devastating consequences of cyberbullying The Weekend Argus spent most of this week trying to track Fialkov down for comment. Several messages were left at his Kevin Fialkov and Associates office, where the receptionist described him as "the IT guy". Emails bounced back. The Weekend Argus tweeted Fialkov, who eventually returned the calls yesterday morning. He asked for emailed questions. Fialkov responded: "You (therefore) have given me no time to fully respond to these false and defamatory allegations save for to strenuously deny them which I hereby do." Several subsequent attempts to get hold of Fialkov were unsuccessful. Cape Town lawyer Joy van der Heyde, encouraged victims of cyber bullying and harassment to go to their nearest magistrate court to fill out a Protection of Harassment form, which is similar to a Domestic Violence interdict, except that it provides for other forms of harassment for people outside a familial relationship. Emma Sadleir, a social media legal expert, said: "Whatever you say on social media is permanent and people should watch what they say, post, tweet comment and share." Weekend Argus